Generate random missions:
Random place
Random enemie
Sometimes random allies
Ash:
He is a Pokémon Trainer from Pallet Town whose goal is to become a Pokémon Master. His first Pokémon was a Pikachu that he received from Professor Oak after arriving late at his laboratory. On his journeys around the Pokémon world, he's been accompanied by a multitude of close friends.
In Galar, he becomes the new Monarch and World Champion of the Pokémon World Coronation Series.
Ash grew up in Pallet Town in the Kanto region with his mother, Delia, as his father spent most of his time traveling. Eventually, Ash would meet Professor Oak and his grandson Gary Oak.

In Seeing the Forest for the Trees!, Ash remembered getting lost in a forest while looking for Pokémon. He brought some wild Pokémon out of the rain and found them some shelter in a tree trunk. Ash's happiness about that moment made him think about how much he wanted to become a Pokémon Trainer.


Young Ash and Gary watching a movie
At the age of six, Ash learned that Professor Oak would be holding a Pokémon Summer Camp, and eagerly asked his mother Delia if he could attend. Seeing her son's enthusiasm, she signed him up but also told him that she had things to do outside of the home during the day the camp would take place, so he would have to get himself there in time on his own. Unfortunately for Ash, he ended up breaking his alarm clock in his sleep and overslept, missing the camp.

Later, Ash managed to attend another one of Professor Oak's Pokémon Summer Camps. One day, another camper named Serena got lost in the forest and wounded her leg after getting startled by a Poliwag. Ash, who was looking for the Poliwag, came to her rescue and wrapped a handkerchief around the wounded knee to brace it. He then helped her up and guided her out of the forest.

As seen in Lights, Camerupt, Action!, Ash and Gary used to be friends at one point in time and even went to watch movies together. In The Ties That Bind, Ash recalled a day when he was about to start his Pokémon journey. He and Gary Oak both fished out an old, rusty Poké Ball, which snagged on both their lines. After arguing about who would keep it, they broke it in two, each keeping one half as a reminder of that day.


Original series

Ash trying to keep Pikachu safe
In Pokémon - I Choose You!, Ash began his journey at the age of 10 as a warm-hearted and well-intentioned but stubborn, rash, and amateur Pokémon Trainer. He was forced to accept a stubborn Pikachu from Professor Oak as his first Pokémon because he woke up late on the day he was set to get his first Pokémon. He was determined to achieve his goal and when Pikachu saw that he was willing to compromise his safety to keep it safe, the two of them formed an extremely strong bond that has been noticed and remarked upon by many characters in the anime. This unbreakable friendship would set his course for the future.

In Pokémon Emergency!, Misty told off Ash after she found her bike Ash had "borrowed" to save Pikachu with was wrecked. At the end of the episode, Team Rocket made it their primary objective to steal Pikachu after witnessing Pikachu's power. Misty continued following Ash as he headed for Pewter City, telling him in Showdown in Pewter City that she would continue following him until she was paid back for the bike.

Ash caught his first Pokémon, a Caterpie, in Ash Catches a Pokémon, followed by a Pidgeotto the next day.

In Showdown in Pewter City, Ash decided to compete in the Pokémon League regional championships by earning Badges from Gym Leaders across the Kanto region. Ash fought Brock, the Pewter Gym Leader, in a Pokémon battle and lost easily. During his rematch, Ash nearly defeated Brock but refused to give the final blow due to the intervention of Brock's younger siblings. Touched by Ash's kindness to Pokémon and with the return of his estranged father, Flint, Brock decided to go with Ash and pursue his dream of being the world's best Pokémon Breeder and gave Ash the Boulder Badge.

In The Water Flowers of Cerulean City, Ash reached the Cerulean Gym and was shocked to learn that Misty was one of its Gym Leaders. Though the match was interrupted when Team Rocket tried to steal the Pokémon from the Gym, Misty's sisters awarded Ash a Cascade Badge when Pikachu saved the Gym with a Thunderbolt. He continued his journey with Misty, who had dreams of becoming the world's greatest Water Pokémon Master.


Ash and his Kanto first partner Pokémon
Ash would go on to obtain the remaining Kanto first partner Pokémon. In Bulbasaur and the Hidden Village, Ash and friends found a Hidden Village protected by a Bulbasaur. Although hostile at first, Bulbasaur warmed up to Ash after he saved an Oddish from Team Rocket. Bulbasaur agreed to join Ash if he could defeat it in battle, which he did with Pikachu, adding Bulbasaur to his team. In Charmander – The Stray Pokémon, Ash and friends discovered a Charmander that had been left in the rain by his former Trainer, Damian. Brock carried Charmander to the Pokémon Center, while Ash held his coat over the Charmander's tail flame to keep it lit. After Charmander saved Pikachu from being taken by Team Rocket, Ash caught him. In Here Comes the Squirtle Squad, Ash and friends met the Squirtle Squad, a rogue group of Squirtle who were deserted by their Trainers. They were tricked by Team Rocket into capturing Pikachu, after which they betrayed and bombed them. Ash went back to rescue the Squirtle leader, which touched it enough to join his team. The remaining members left with Officer Jenny to become firefighters.

Every time he thought he was doing well, Ash would somehow cross paths with his childhood rival, Gary. Gary and Professor Oak reminded Ash that he was always a step behind Gary. In Mystery at the Lighthouse, Professor Oak told Ash that Gary had caught 45 Pokémon at a point when Ash only had seven.

In Island of the Giant Pokémon, Ash and his friends were swept away onto Pokémon Land, located on the Island of the Giant Pokémon, after a group of Gyarados triggered a cyclone using Dragon Rage. Four of Ash's Pokémon, including Pikachu, had gone missing during the chaos, but they found their way back to him the following day. Ash and the others took a ferry back to the mainland from Tentacool & Tentacruel to The Ghost of Maiden's Peak.


Ash with Misty and Tracey
Many of Ash's first Gym Badges were given to him merely out of gratitude for his assistance, rather than claiming an actual victory in battle over the Gym Leaders. Of the first five Gym Badges that had been given to Ash in Kanto, only Lt. Surge's Thunder Badge in Electric Shock Showdown was earned from a victory in battle.

Ash's troubles were not made any easier when his Charmander, after evolving into a Charmeleon, and then a Charizard, grew too powerful and refused to listen to him until Ash could prove himself.

Over time, Ash's dedication to his goal paid off. After earning his first eight Badges, Ash went on to compete in the Indigo Plateau Conference, advancing to the fifth round - one further than Gary - and ending up in the Top 16, his defeat coming in the form of his Charizard refusing to battle for him.


Ash in the Orange League Hall of Fame
Following Ash's defeat in the Indigo League, Professor Oak asked him to travel to Valencia Island in the Orange Islands to retrieve the GS Ball from a Pokémon Professor named Ivy. While in the Orange Islands, Ash learned of the Orange Crew, an elite group of Trainers not unlike Gym Leaders, that provided challenges for Trainers to overcome in the Orange League. After Brock decided to stay with Professor Ivy and help her with her work, Ash and Misty were joined by an enthusiastic Pokémon Watcher named Tracey Sketchit. Ash, Misty, and Tracey traversed the Orange Islands on the back of a lost Lapras. Ash caught the Lapras during this time. He eventually defeated the four members of the Orange Crew and finally won the Orange League by triumphing over the Orange Crew Supreme Gym Leader, Drake, becoming an Honored Trainer and earning himself a spot in the Orange League Hall of Fame. Before leaving the Orange Islands, Ash managed to find his Lapras's pod and released it back into the wild.

Upon returning to Pallet Town, Ash discovered that Brock had returned due to some unknown incident that left the aspiring Pokémon Breeder in dread of even hearing Professor Ivy's name. Meanwhile, Tracey stayed at Professor Oak's Laboratory as Professor Oak's assistant, and Brock rejoined Ash and Misty. After his victory in the Orange League, Ash encountered Gary again, and after being defeated in a one-on-one battle, he learned that his rival had been training hard to participate in the Silver Conference in Johto.

Excited at the prospect of meeting new Pokémon and facing Gary again, Ash and friends left for the Johto region to collect eight Badges from the Gym Leaders in the Johto region and compete in the Johto League. Much like his travels through Kanto, Ash, Misty, and Brock impacted the many people and Pokémon they met along the way (one of them being Kurt, to whom Ash delivered the GS Ball).

In The Grass Route, Ash competed in the Grass Tournament with Bulbasaur. He lost in the final round to Ephraim's Skiploom.

Ash, along with Misty, competed in the Whirl Cup in the Whirl Islands, with Ash placing in the Top 16. He was defeated by Misty in a 2-on-2; Misty ended up losing in the next round. Ash, along with Ritchie, then helped save Silver, a child Lugia, and its parent, from the evil machinations of Team Rocket.

Ash encountered Gary occasionally in Johto, and, while they were still rivals, Gary seemed to view Ash with slightly more respect than before. Ash's growth of character was evident throughout this story arc as he continued to think more and more about his Pokémon and less and less about himself. After earning eight Johto Gym Badges, Ash entered the Silver Conference with Gary. Finally, the two rivals battled in the tournament in a Full Battle. Although it was a close battle, Ash emerged victorious against his rival for the first time in his career as a Pokémon Trainer, marking one of the biggest turning points in said career. After the battle, Gary and Ash departed on good terms with each other, finally overcoming their boyhood animosity and recognizing each other as equals. Ash's journey through Kanto and Johto came to an end when he was forced to split up with Brock and Misty when the two of them received messages to return home.


Pokémon the Series: Ruby and Sapphire

Ash with Brock, May, and Max
After hearing about a distant region called Hoenn from Harrison, the opponent he lost to in the Silver Conference, Ash decided to journey there and take only Pikachu with him this time. In Hoenn, Ash met a girl named May and her brother, Max, who he later learned were Petalburg Gym Leader Norman's children, and both of whom decided to join Ash on his travels. Shortly after the three companions left Petalburg City, Brock rejoined the group when he saved them from a flock of angry Taillow and their leader. From that point onward, Ash journeyed through Hoenn with one old friend and two new friends, collecting Gym Badges in much the same fashion as before. Once May set her sights on becoming a Top Coordinator, Ash supported her whenever he could while maintaining his focus on winning Badges. During these journeys, Ash and his friends ended up being entwined in the plots of the region's two rivaling villainous teams, Team Aqua and Team Magma, with Pikachu getting possessed by Groudon in the summit of their conflict. Thanks to Team Rocket's unintentional help, they helped save the entire Hoenn region.

While Ash had no major recurring rival in Hoenn, he did encounter certain Trainers multiple times and formed friendly rivalries with them. One such friend was Morrison, who was very similar to and just as competitive as Ash and was first introduced close to the end of the group's travels in Hoenn. Just like the Indigo Plateau and Silver Conferences, Ash did not win the Ever Grande Conference, but he came very close before losing to Tyson, who went on to win the tournament. After parting ways with May, Max, and Brock, Ash returned to Pallet Town. As he passed through Viridian City on his way back home, he met Scott and Agatha and learned about the Battle Frontier in Kanto. He decided to take on the Battle Frontier and was surprised but happy to learn that Brock, May, and Max would join him on this adventure as well. Eventually, Ash conquered the seven Frontier Brains and was offered the opportunity to become a Frontier Brain himself, but declined in favor of continuing his Pokémon journey.

Pokémon the Series: Diamond and Pearl

Ash arriving in Sinnoh
Following Ash's victory over the Battle Frontier, May set her sights on Pokémon Contests in the Johto region and traveled there while Max returned home to Petalburg City in Hoenn. After encountering and battling his old rival, Gary (who has now become a Pokémon researcher), and learning of a new region with new Pokémon, Ash decided to leave for the Sinnoh region to earn the Gym Badges available there. Like before, he took only Pikachu with him at first but brought his Aipom along when she snuck onto the ship Ash was leaving on. While Brock did not directly accompany Ash to Sinnoh, he did meet with him while there and traveled with him through Sinnoh as he had for Kanto, Johto, and Hoenn. This time, they were accompanied by another aspiring Pokémon Coordinator named Dawn. Ash enthusiastically supported Dawn in her endeavors to become a Top Coordinator. Unlike May, he watched all of Dawn's Contests without being distracted by the need to train. Just as he supported Dawn in her Contests, she supported him in his Gym battles. She would even go as far as dressing up as a cheerleader with her Pokémon sometimes and cheer for him.

While traveling through Sinnoh, Ash formed a heated rivalry with a Trainer named Paul. Throughout Ash's journey, Paul would constantly put him down and the two often argued over their nearly opposite training styles. While Paul was harsh, distant, and sometimes plain cruel to his Pokémon, Ash insisted that the best way to raise Pokémon was through patience, caring, and friendship. Their rivalry came to a head after they competed in a Tag Battle Tournament together when Paul released his Chimchar after it failed to meet his expectations. Ash then decided to take in the Chimp Pokémon and promised to make it strong using his philosophy. Although Ash always considered himself on par with him, Paul would often come out the better in their battles as his Pokémon were very powerful, due to him only keeping Pokémon that were naturally really strong. Ash's Pokémon, though they grew under his command and became strong in their own right, could not yet equal those of Paul's. Later events would soon lead to a particularly crushing defeat at Lake Acuity for Ash, losing a Full Battle while only knocking out two of Paul's Pokémon in return, this being Ash's heaviest loss in any battle up to that point. Following the defeat, Ash acknowledged that he had to take Paul more seriously and cautiously in the future.


Ash in the Wallace Cup

Ash in the Hearthome Collection
While in Sinnoh, Ash competed in two official Pokémon Contests, once in Jubilife City and a second time in the Wallace Cup upon Wallace's recommendation. He also competed against several Pokémon Stylists in the Hearthome Collection fashion show in Arriving in Style!, where he ended up in third place, winning the Unique Award for his original performance.

As Ash and his friends journeyed through Sinnoh, they ended up becoming heavily involved with the legends of Sinnoh, with Ash being personally chosen by Azelf of the lake guardians. Along with Cynthia, Looker and Team Rocket, they faced off against Pokémon Hunter J as well as the evil Team Galactic. Thanks to their efforts, the Sinnoh region was spared from Cyrus's insane scheme.

Ash eventually obtained all of the Sinnoh Gym Badges he needed to enter Sinnoh's Pokémon League Conference. During his battles in the Lily of the Valley Conference, he managed to advance to the Top 4. For the second time since meeting Paul (the first being in a PokéRinger tournament during which Ash's Staravia evolved into a Staraptor and defeated Paul's Honchkrow), Ash managed to defeat his bitter rival, notably using Paul's discarded Chimchar, now an Infernape, to deal the finishing blow. This confirmed Ash's beliefs in how to raise Pokémon, showing that though he took his time and raised his Pokémon with care and friendship they achieved the same results as Paul's methods. This caused Paul to finally acknowledge Ash as a Trainer of some merit, thus ending their arguments. Ash later fought against Tobias, becoming the only known Trainer to defeat his Darkrai. Although Ash ultimately lost the battle at the same magnitude as his loss to Paul at Lake Acuity, he was not overly upset as he was closer to his Pokémon than ever before. After Pokémon the Series: Diamond and Pearl, Ash, Dawn, and Brock split up and went their separate ways, with Brock confirming that he would not be joining Ash on his later travels as he decided to pursue his new dream of being a Pokémon doctor.


Pokémon the Series: Black & White

Ash with Iris and Cilan
Shortly after returning home from his Sinnoh journey, Ash traveled with Delia and Professor Oak on a trip to the Unova region. After losing in a battle to Trip and seeing the power of the Legendary Pokémon Zekrom, Ash became interested in traveling to Unova to meet new Pokémon, as well as new friends. In Unova, he brought along only his Pikachu as he did in Hoenn.

Soon after he started his journey, Ash met Iris, a wild girl who is (as he later learns) a possible successor of the Opelucid Gym and wishes to be a Dragon Master, and Cilan, one of the Striaton Gym Leaders, who aspires to be the world's greatest Pokémon Connoisseur. After Ash earns their interest by telling Iris of his encounter with Zekrom and battling Cilan for the Trio Badge, the three decide to travel together. During his time in Unova, along with his quest for the Badges, the three friends also competed in the local competitions Club Battle, Clubsplosion, and Pokémon World Tournament Junior Cup. Despite battling quite well, Ash failed to win any of the tournaments and managed to be the runner-up of two of the three. Despite these mishaps, he was not upset to see his friends win the competitions instead of him.

As they journeyed, Ash and his friends ended up again being caught up in Team Rocket's new plot, which was personally being supervised by Giovanni. This time, Team Rocket planned to take over the world using a Meloetta that Ash befriended to unleash the power of the Forces of Nature. Thanks to Cynthia and Ridley, Ash and his friends managed to thwart Team Rocket's evil plot.

After managing to obtain eight Unova Gym Badges, Ash was allowed to participate in the Vertress Conference along with his current and some new rivals. In the preliminary round, Ash battled Trip one-on-one, defeating him for the first time and ending their rivalry. Ash also defeated his friend and rival, Stephan, in the tournament. He then battled one of his newer rivals, Cameron, where he lost in A Unova League Evolution!, ending in the Top 8 of the Vertress Conference.

After the Conference, the three friends decided to check out some ruins that Professor Juniper's father, Cedric Juniper discovered, and on the way, they met with a strange young man named N. They soon became entwined in the plots of Ghetsis, Colress, and Team Plasma as they sought to take over the world using Reshiram's power. Ash and his friends, along with Looker, the Team Rocket trio, Professor Cedric, as well as N, Anthea and Concordia, managed to foil Plasma's evil scheme.

As their adventures started coming to a close, Ash and his friends decided to take the long way back to Kanto by sailing on a series of luxury liners through a chain of islands called the Decolore Islands. On the way, Ash met Alexa, a Pokémon Journalist, from whom he learned of the Kalos region. Soon after they reach Kanto, Ash split up with Iris and Cilan, who wished to go in separate directions to follow their dreams.

Pokémon the Series: XY

Ash as a Baron at the Battle Chateau
After his brief visit to Pallet Town and having left his Pokémon in Professor Oak's care beside Pikachu, Ash arrived at the Kalos region with Alexa, first visiting Lumiose City, where he parted ways with the journalist and tried to challenge the Lumiose Gym at Prism Tower. He was forcibly ejected from the tower when the computerized security system, later revealed to be the Clembot, found out that he didn't have any Kalos Badges. He was rescued by Clemont and Bonnie.

Ash brought an injured Froakie to Professor Sycamore, who told Ash about an additional stage of Pokémon evolution he was researching called Mega Evolution. Assisted by Pikachu and Froakie, Ash calmed down an angry Garchomp belonging to Sycamore that was attacking Lumiose City. Ash saw a Mega Evolved Pokémon for the first time when a Mega Blaziken saved him and Pikachu from falling off of Prism Tower. Froakie then allowed itself to be captured by Ash, and Clemont and Bonnie started to travel with Ash.

Ash won his first Kalos Badge, the Bug Badge, after defeating the Santalune Gym Leader, Viola. The group was joined by Serena, who still remembered Ash rescuing her in her childhood and decided to start her journey to reunite with him, although he initially did not remember the two of them meeting. Ash and Serena learn that Clemont was the Lumiose Gym Leader, who was exiled from his Gym by his invention. They help Clemont face Clembot, and after the issue was resolved, the two boys promised to battle after Ash fulfilled the original conditions set by Clembot (even if it was no longer necessary), to earn four Badges. With that, the group set off on their journey again. During their travels, they occasionally met the ninja boy Sanpei, whose presence always led to progress in Froakie's (and later Frogadier's and Greninja's) strength.

Ash briefly traveled with the Shalour Gym Leader Korrina to discover more about Mega Evolution and Mega Stones.


Ash with Serena, Clemont, and Bonnie
Ash and his friends later attended Professor Sycamore's Pokémon Summer Camp, where they met the trio of Shauna, Tierno, and Trevor, with whom the group started a friendly rivalry with. In Ash's case, his rivalry would mainly be with Trevor and Tierno as Serena and Shauna pursued Pokémon Showcases.

During their journey, Ash caught a lost and traumatized Goomy, which he raised into a Sliggoo, and later, a powerful Goodra. After earning his fourth Gym Badge, Ash eventually faced Clemont in their promised Gym Battle, and won with Goodra's help, gaining his fifth Badge. Later, Ash and friends came across Goodra's old home, where they discovered it was taken over by a Florges and her companions. After saving Goodra's swamp from Team Rocket while simultaneously solving the issue concerning Florges, Ash left Goodra in the wetlands so it could act as the protector of its swamp and the Pokémon living in it. Some time afterward, when Ash reached Laverre City to challenge the Gym, he made a new rival in Sawyer, a novice trainer hailing from Hoenn. Along the way, Ash also supported Serena in her quest to become Kalos Queen and gave her some helpful advice when she eventually lost, telling her that losing is simply another step towards victory.

Later in their journeys, Ash and friends reached Anistar City and, together with Professor Sycamore, they met the Gym Leader, Olympia. She revealed his Frogadier's past as a Froakie from before meeting Ash and a glimpse of Frogadier's, his friend's, Sycamore's, Team Rocket's, and his fate, indicating that they would all play a vital role in Kalos's future. Ash challenged her to a Double Battle, which he won using Frogadier and Talonflame.

Shortly after, the group came across a mysterious Pokémon, dubbed Squishy by Bonnie, who was being pursued relentlessly by the villainous team Team Flare, prompting the group to put it under their protective custody. Some time afterward, Ash and his friends got involved in a conflict in Sanpei's hometown, which led to Frogadier evolving into Greninja, as well as achieving Bond Phenomenon for the first time. During another confrontation with Team Flare in Terminus Cave, Ash learned Bond Phenomenon came at a cost, as he was able to share Greninja's senses, but also share its pain.


Ash and Greninja activating the Bond Phenomenon
Later on, Ash met up with Alain, who became intrigued by Greninja's Bond Phenomenon and requested to battle Ash. Ash put up a decent fight but eventually lost. After his loss against Alain, Ash and Greninja began training to perfect Greninja's new form. Ash and Greninja later had a rematch with Alain and a battle against Diantha, during the latter Greninja even managed to reach its final Ash-Greninja form. Despite their training, the two were unsuccessful in mastering the transformation as Ash passed out during both battles from exhaustion from using the form.

After losing a rematch with Sawyer, in which Greninja even failed to transform, Ash began feeling doubtful of his ability to master the transformation. His confidence was shaken further after brutally losing to the Snowbelle Gym Leader Wulfric in a battle where all three of his Pokémon were unable to bring down Wulfric's second Pokémon, Avalugg. After seeing how badly Greninja got hurt during their battle and blaming himself for the loss, a depressed Ash left into the Winding Woods by himself. After an argument with Serena, Ash was able to get back to his old self. He later met up with Greninja, and while trying to save a wild Spewpa, the two were able to perfect Bond Phenomenon. With Greninja's Ash-Greninja form perfected, Ash was able to defeat Wulfric in a rematch, earning him his final Kalos Gym Badge and qualifying him for participation in the Lumiose Conference.

After returning to Lumiose City, Ash entered the Lumiose Conference. Following several notable victories, Ash had Goodra rejoin his team for his semi-final battle against Sawyer. After a narrow victory, Ash managed to defeat Sawyer and reach the finals of the Conference, marking his first appearance in the finals of a Pokémon League; where he would face Alain. On the night before the final battle, he and his friends learned more about the Ash-Greninja transformation. In the finals of the Lumiose Conference, Ash and Alain started a back-and-forth battle that eventually came down to Alain's Mega Charizard X against Ash's Greninja in its Ash-Greninja form. After a fierce battle, Greninja was defeated, causing Ash to end up as the Runner-Up of the Lumiose Conference. Ash showed great sincerity and principle following the battle, shaking Alain's hand regardless of the result.


Ash and his Pokémon captured by Team Flare
During the closing ceremony of the conference, Team Flare began their final operation, using the power of the blue Zygarde Core Z2 to cause massive roots to destroy parts of Lumiose City. Ash and his Pokémon were ultimately abducted by Team Flare and were taken captive at the top of Prism Tower, as Lysandre intended to use Ash and Greninja's Bond Phenomenon for his plans by using Team Flare's Mega Evolution energy ray to control them. However, upon hearing Pikachu's voice, Ash resisted the machine's influence, even getting Greninja to do the same thing. After talking some sense into Alain, Ash and Greninja broke free from their bindings by using the Bond Phenomenon. Ash and Alain soon engaged in a battle against Lysandre and ultimately managed to defeat him. When Ash later heard about the Giant Rock, he met up with the rest to combat it. Thanks to everyone's combined effort, Chespie was saved from the Giant Rock. Squishy and Z2 ultimately destroyed the creature, before the two Zygarde left.

Following the crisis, Ash helped Alain and Serena resolve their issues and bid farewell to his rivals. Later, after dropping Goodra off at the wetlands again, the group came across Xerosic, one of Team Flare's Scientists. Ash, his Greninja, his friends and the gang were ultimately able to foil Xerosic's plans and hand him over to Officer Jenny. The group soon reunited with Squishy and Z2, who requested Greninja's help to obliterate the remaining negative energy left by Team Flare's crisis. Knowing this was for the sake of Kalos, Ash bade farewell to Greninja before Greninja left with the two Zygarde. After releasing Greninja, Ash and the gang headed back to Lumiose City to say their final goodbyes. After bidding farewell to Serena, who headed for Hoenn, Ash separated from Clemont and Bonnie as well and returned to Pallet Town.

Pokémon the Series: Sun & Moon

Ash and his classmates
Ash traveled with Delia to the Alola region after Mimey won the trip via lottery. It was shown that Ash gave his Kalos Pokémon to Professor Oak, who gave him and his mother a Pokémon Egg to deliver to his cousin Samson. While on Melemele Island, Ash stumbled upon the Pokémon School, where he met Lana, Lillie, Mallow, Kiawe, Sophocles, Samson, and Professor Kukui and learned about Z-Rings and Z-Moves. Later on, he met Tapu Koko, the guardian of Melemele Island, who gave Ash a Z-Ring and an Electrium Z. With these discoveries, Ash decided to remain in Alola to study at the school and learn more about Z-Moves, living with Professor Kukui.

Later, Tapu Koko challenged Ash and Pikachu to a battle. Ash's Electrium Z broke after Ash and Pikachu used the Z-Move Gigavolt Havoc on Tapu Koko. Ash then decided to take on the island challenge to obtain new Z-Crystals and prove his worth.


Ash and his Z-Ring
Ash caught several Pokémon on Melemele Island, such as his Rowlet, Rockruff, and Litten. Ash also got a Normalium Z after his fight with Totem Gumshoos on Melemele Island. Tapu Koko gave him a new Electrium Z after Ash won his grand trial battle with Melemele Island kahuna Hala. Also, Ash struck up a friendly rivalry with Lillie's brother Gladion. He then gained a Grassium Z and Rockium Z during his trial and grand trial on Akala Island. He also briefly reunited with Brock, Misty, and some of his Pokémon during a field trip to Kanto for an extracurricular activity.

One day, Ash was entrusted to take care of a Cosmog by Solgaleo and Lunala, which he saw in a dream. The Cosmog, nicknamed Nebby by Lillie, took a liking to Ash and frequently caused trouble with its ability to teleport people around. In Faba's Revenge!, Faba kidnapped Nebby while Ash's attention was elsewhere. When Ash and Lillie learned about this, they enlisted Gladion and Lusamine in helping them rescue it. When the four found Faba, they also found that he successfully forced Nebby to summon a Nihilego from an Ultra Wormhole. After Nihilego kidnapped Lusamine and retreated into the Ultra Wormhole, Ash discovered that the incident caused Nebby to evolve into a Cosmoem.

Ash, his classmates, and Gladion then watched as the guardian deities helped Nebby evolve into the Legendary Pokémon Solgaleo and upgrade Ash's Z-Ring into a Z-Power Ring. With a Solganium Z he received from Nebby, Ash activated Solgaleo's Z-Move, Searing Sunraze Smash, and had Nebby open up an Ultra Wormhole, allowing everyone to traverse through Ultra Space on Nebby's back. There, after Ash's Electrium Z temporarily transformed into a Pikashunium Z, Ash and Pikachu used it to launch a 10,000,000 Volt Thunderbolt. The attack defeated Nihilego, weakening it long enough for Lillie and Gladion to pull their mother free from its hold. The Pikashunium Z then reverted to an Electrium Z. With their mission finished, Lusamine was taken back through the Ultra Wormhole to the Altar of the Sunne.

During Kukui and Burnet's wedding reception in the aftermath of the incident, Ash and his friends were invited to join an Ultra Beast response task force, known as the Ultra Guardians, which they all agreed to. On their first mission, Ash and his classmates were assigned to capture a Buzzwole that had appeared through an Ultra Wormhole. The Ultra Guardians encountered it at Mahalo Trail, where Ash eventually realized it preferred flexing to battling. As a result, Ash and Kiawe distracted it long enough for the former to throw a Beast Ball at it, successfully capturing it. Later, Buzzwole was brought to Melemele Meadow, where Professor Burnet temporarily opened a new wormhole, allowing Buzzwole to return home.


Ash in his Ultra Guardian uniform
Later, Ash encountered a Poipole who seemed strangely attached to Pikachu. After a while, Poipole was confirmed to be an Ultra Beast. Ash was permitted to capture it, though he failed several times as Poipole thought the catching process was a game. After Ash helped it understand what was happening, Poipole allowed itself to be captured and was allowed to stay with the group until they could find its Ultra Wormhole and send it back.

Ash attempted to participate in the Ula'ula Island challenge, but he was rejected by Nanu and lost in an impromptu "pre-trial". Afterward, Ash decided to stay on the island and train under Tapu Bulu. This allowed him to formally participate in his island challenge, which turned out to be a battle against Jessie's Mimikyu, who recently gained a Mimikium Z. Ash barely won thanks to Pikachu learning Electroweb, as well as being able to once again use 10,000,000 Volt Thunderbolt. Finally, Ash participated in the grand trial, where he faced off against Nanu in a 3-on-1 battle in Nanu's favor and won, earning himself a Lycanium Z.

Ash led the Ultra Guardians' investigation into mysterious dark clouds that appeared over the Alola region, causing all of the adults in Alola to lose their energy and motivation. The cause was revealed to be a Necrozma pursuing a Lunala, which resulted in a massive battle against Necrozma. During this time, Nebby joined the fight; Necrozma possessed Lunala and then Nebby to become Dawn Wings and Dusk Mane Necrozma, respectively; and the Ultra Guardians pursued Necrozma into Poipole's world. There, they learned about how Necrozma needed to regain its true form to release Nebby. After Ash and Gladion acquired Z-Crystals for Nebby and Lunala, the Ultra Guardians, with the help of their Pokémon, Lunala, Poipole's friends, and everyone else in Alola, shared their Z-Power with Necrozma, causing it to release Nebby. Afterward, Ash and Nebby used Searing Sunraze Smash, while Gladion and Lunala used Menacing Moonraze Maelstrom on Necrozma. The combined Z-Moves fully restored Necrozma's light, giving it the strength to become its true form, Ultra Necrozma. Afterward, the Ultra Guardians, Nebby, and Lunala traveled back to Alola through the Ultra Wormhole, while Ash said farewell to Poipole, who chose to stay behind in its world.

Later, Ash and his classmates arrived on Poni Island for their research projects for school. Ash's project was to have a grand trial battle. In A Grand Debut!, Ash battled the newly appointed island kahuna Hapu in a one-on-one battle and won. Letting Pikachu choose their reward for the completion, Ash received a Steelium Z.


Ash after winning the Manalo Conference
Following this victory, Ash entered the first-ever Manalo Conference, along with his classmates. He eventually made it to the semifinals, where he faced off against the Team Skull Boss Guzma. After a tough match, Ash was able to defeat him and advance to the finals, where he was set to face Gladion. On the night before the final battle, Ash's Meltan fused with its fellow Meltan, evolving into Melmetal, which Ash ended up using as his first Pokémon in the finals. The match eventually resulted in a battle between the two Trainers' Lycanroc, with Ash's Lycanroc eventually emerging victorious, thus earning Ash the title of Alola League Champion.

After winning the Alola League championship, Ash was given the right to have an exhibition match against the Masked Royal. However, during a Guzzlord invasion of the Manalo Stadium, the Masked Royal's true identity as Professor Kukui was exposed. With his cover blown, Kukui decided to battle Ash as himself and make the exhibition match a Full Battle, which Ash agreed to. During the battle, Ash's Torracat was finally able to defeat its longtime rival, Professor Kukui's Incineroar, and evolve into an Incineroar itself. Before Kukui could send out his last Pokémon, Tapu Koko appeared and took its place in the battle. When Ash was down to his last Pokémon, Pikachu, Tapu Koko gave Kukui a Tapunium Z, while Ash's Electrium Z once again transformed into a Pikashunium Z, allowing both Pokémon to unleash their signature Z-Moves. In the end, Ash's Pikachu's Z-Move proved superior and defeated Tapu Koko, ending the exhibition match with Ash's victory.

After the Manalo Conference had ended, Ash was left unsure of what to do next. However, after hearing Olivia mention how important knowing the "outside world" is, he decided to return home and start traveling around the world. After saying farewell to his classmates, Kukui, and Burnet, he boarded a plane back to Kanto, leaving all of his current party Pokémon (excluding Pikachu) under the two Professors' care.

Pokémon Journeys: The Series

Ash's goal of battling Monarch Leon
Sometime after his return to Kanto, Ash joined Professor Oak in attending the opening of the new Cerise Laboratory in Vermilion City. During the opening ceremony, the head of the lab, Professor Cerise, informed the attendees that a rare Pokémon would be appearing at the local port shortly. Ash eagerly rushed over there and found out the rare Pokémon was a Lugia. During this encounter, he also met a boy named Goh, and the two shared a ride with Lugia throughout Kanto. When they later returned to the Cerise Laboratory, Professor Cerise was amazed by the information they had gathered about Lugia, and he asked them to become his research assistants. They accepted the offer and were provided with their room to stay in. Delia also left Mimey at the lab to take care of Ash while he stayed there.

Later, Ash and Goh traveled to the Galar region to watch the finals of the World Coronation Series. The match ended in the victory of Galar's undefeated Champion Leon, thus making him the Monarch, the official strongest Trainer in the world. Inspired by this, Ash decided he wanted to battle Leon himself. However, before he could challenge him, a Gigantamax Drednaw went on a rampage and started causing havoc. While Ash and Goh battled it, Pikachu ended up Gigantamaxing as well, therefore giving him enough power to defeat Drednaw. Leon, impressed by Ash's performance, accepted his challenge to a battle. Ash also received a Dynamax Band from Leon. After Ash lost, he decided to take part in the World Coronation Series as well and climb through its ranks to one day challenge Leon again.

Upon entering the World Coronation Series, Ash immediately started building up a winning streak, soon even reaching the Great Class after defeating Korrina. Ash's winning streak came to an end, however, when he encountered Bea, a Fighting-type Gym Leader from Galar, who was also aiming to defeat Leon. In their two-on-two match at the Fighting Dojo, Ash failed to defeat a single one of Bea's Pokémon, with her powerful Grapploct with its many limbs and Octolock proving especially troublesome. This crushing defeat caused Ash to start losing his self-confidence and led to him entering a losing streak, even resulting in him falling back into the Normal Class. This caused him to get depressed, until he was snapped back into his senses by a motivational speech from Goh. Thanks to this, he quickly fought his way back into the Great Class and challenged Bea to a rematch at the Cianwood Gym, managing to tie with her this time.

One night, Ash's Dynamax Band began to glow. After learning about cases of Pokémon Dynamaxing in Galar outside of Power Spots, Ash and Goh headed there to investigate. Soon after arriving in the region, Ash and Goh ended up getting separated while in the Slumbering Weald, where Ash encountered Zacian, whereas Goh encountered Zamazenta. Later, Ash encountered Leon and joined him in taking care of the Dynamax Pokémon rampaging around Galar. During this quest, they ended up encountering Chairman Rose and Oleana, and Ash accompanied them to dine and spend a night at Rose Tower. When he departed the next day to rendezvous with Goh, Eternatus emerged from the Hammerlocke Energy Plant, starting the Darkest Day and prompting Ash to head there. At the Hammerlocke Stadium, Ash re-encountered Rose and engaged him in a battle, eventually winning thanks to his newly evolved Lucario. Reuniting with Goh, the two then engaged in a battle against Eternatus, after Leon had failed to stop it. With Zacian and Zamazenta's help, they successfully defeated Eternatus and sealed it away, ending the Darkest Day.


Ash with Dawn, Goh, and Chloe
Following his second battle with Bea, Ash entered another winning streak, steadily increasing his ranking. One day, he received a letter from Iris, challenging him to a World Coronation Series battle. He happily accepted her invitation, but was later surprised to find out that Iris had succeeded Alder as the new Champion of Unova. After an intense battle, Ash defeated his former traveling companion and rose to the Ultra Class as a result. In his first Ultra Class battle, Ash was pitted against Volkner and succeeded in defeating him. Following the match, Volkner informed Ash that Cynthia was taking part in the World Coronation Series as well, and had managed to climb her way into the Master Class.

Knowing that he was going to be facing very strong opponents in the Ultra and Master Classes, Ash sought Korrina's help to Mega Evolve his Lucario. After receiving a Mega Glove from Korrina, Ash traveled to Mega Island and managed to obtain himself a Lucarionite, just in time to receive a message informing him that Bea was to be his next Ultra Class opponent. As such, Ash then traveled to Stow-on-Side to settle his score with Bea once and for all on her home turf. Using his newly acquired Mega Lucario, Ash was able to defeat Bea's Gigantamax Machamp, finally earning him a victory against his rival.

After defeating Bea, Ash sought Allister's help in Gigantamaxing his Gengar. Thanks to the Max Soup made by him, Gengar was able to unlock its Gigantamax potential, which proved useful in Ash's World Coronation Series battle against Marnie.

His victories kept bringing Ash more and more fame as the rising star of Kanto, causing the news of his next Ultra Class battle, this one against Drasna of the Kalos Elite Four, to gain widespread media attention. Following a reunion and a training session with Clemont and Bonnie, Ash took on Drasna and defeated her, putting him at the very top of the Ultra Class. As such, his next match was to be an entrance battle against Raihan, the lowest-ranked Trainer in the Master Class. After briefly reuniting with Greninja in Kalos and having his Lucario train its Aura with it, Ash felt ready for the match. Raihan, Leon's long-time rival, gave Ash a very tough challenge, even forcing him to use Gengar's Gigantamax instead of Lucario's Mega Evolution to bypass his weather strategy. Eventually, however, Ash managed to win, officially putting him in the Master Class along with the other reigning regional Champions and Alain.


Ash wearing his Z-Power Ring, Dynamax Band, and Mega Glove
During a visit to the Crown Tundra, Ash reunited with Lillie and her family just as they succeeded in finding Lillie's missing father, Mohn. He then proceeded to accompany them back to Alola, where he reunited with his Alolan family and friends. Ash also participated in a special Battle Royal that was organized to celebrate the homecoming of the Alola Champion. During the Battle Royal, the entire Alola region showed their support for Ash and encouraged him to win the Masters Eight Tournament as Alola's representative.

After some hard training with his Pokémon kept at Professor Oak's lab and Paul, Ash traveled to Galar once more to participate in the Masters Eight Tournament, along with the rest of the Masters Eight, reuniting with Iris, Alain, and the other regional Champions. His first opponent was chosen to be Steven. After watching the other quarterfinal battles, Ash and Steven began their battle. Although he had a tough time against the Hoenn Champion, Ash was eventually able to defeat him with the help of 10,000,000 Volt Thunderbolt, advancing him to the semifinals to face Cynthia. After witnessing Leon rather easily defeat Diantha, Ash took on Cynthia. Although Cynthia gained an early lead, Ash gradually evened the odds, until his Mega Lucario finally took home the victory, meaning that Ash and Leon's long-awaited battle was to finally happen.


Ash after becoming the new Monarch
At the start of the finals, Leon surprised everyone by allowing Ash to use all three of Mega Evolution, Dynamax, and Z-Moves during the battle, which Ash accepted. During the climax of the battle, Eternatus appeared above Wyndon Stadium and granted both Trainers an additional use of Dynamax. The climactic showdown ended with a clash between Ash's Pikachu and Leon's Charizard. Ultimately, Ash's partner emerged victorious against the undefeated Charizard, fulfilling Ash's dream of defeating Leon and making him the new Monarch.

Following the Masters Eight Tournament, Ash announced his intentions to set off on a new journey alone to continue learning more about Pokémon and achieve his goal of becoming a Pokémon Master. After departing from the Cerise Laboratory, Ash parted ways with Goh, who wished to go his way to achieve his dream.


Ash resuming his journey with Pikachu
Shortly after parting ways with Goh, Ash met an injured wild Latias. He helped to treat her injuries and protected her from being stolen by Team Rocket. As a result, she started to secretly follow him. Soon after, Ash reunited with Misty and Brock, who joined him in his travels once more as they continued to help out Pokémon in need and reunite with Ash's other old friends like Cilan, the Squirtle Squad, and his Lapras. Latias eventually reappeared before Ash and requested his help in saving a Latios from a Pokémon hunter. Once the hunter had been stopped, Latias left with Latios, who stubbornly didn't trust humans yet. He decided to return to Pallet Town following this, with Brock and Misty also deciding to return to their respective hometowns, although not before expressing a desire to travel again in the future. After returning home, Ash reunited with Tracey and his Pidgeot, the latter of whom returned to his party. During an encounter with Gary, he was asked how close he was to becoming a Pokémon Master now that he had become the Monarch. After spending a while pondering the answer, Ash deduced that to him, a Pokémon Master is a person who can befriend any Pokémon. Since he had failed to befriend Latios despite helping him, he figured he still had to work more to achieve his dream. As such, he resolved to resume traveling and left Pallet Town with Pikachu once more.


Character

Ash and his mother
Ash is an only child who lived with his mother Delia until he left for his Pokémon journey at the age of ten. His main goal in life, as described in the first episode, is to be the world's greatest Pokémon Master. One particular characteristic about Ash that has not changed throughout the anime, aside from his determination and his passion for raising and training Pokémon, is that he is incredibly selfless. He will often go to extraordinary lengths to earn a Pokémon's trust and respect and to better understand a Pokémon that he sees as troubled. He is also very fair-minded and trusting, a true testament to his good-natured character.

Ash has a strong sense of justice, especially when it comes to Pokémon. If a Pokémon is in trouble, he will make every effort to help them, even if he has no prior connection to them. If they are the cause of trouble, he will stop them, and then try to understand them, with almost all such occasions being a case of the Pokémon, or their Trainers or friends, having a problem which can't be resolved normally. In those cases, he will selflessly volunteer to help them. As shown on several occasions, such as in Lumiose City Pursuit! and The Road Most Traveled!, he is even willing to put his own life in danger to help Pokémon. Should the problem be caused by humans, such as Team Rocket, Pokémon thieves, hunters, or poachers, Ash will resolve to do anything in his power to stop them.

Despite this and previous dealings with villainous teams, Ash has retained a remarkably optimistic and naive outlook, a trait his companions seem to share. He is quick to praise and has an unshakable trust in both his Pokémon and his friends. Also, Ash is determined to see the best in everybody unless he has a very good reason not to. An example would be Team Rocket's frequent "sudden appearances" that coincide with their needs at that time, and Ash never questioning it until it is too late. Another example would be how he always praises Clemont for his inventions, no matter their high failure rate, and the near-inevitable explosion, or Cilan for his various hobbies. Furthermore, even though almost all of his friends have large dreams, Ash fully supports them and has never doubted their ability to accomplish them, possibly due to his own highly ambitious goal. He also encourages Pokémon to do the best they can, even if they aren't his own, and has even helped train wild Pokémon.

In the original series, though Ash actively took part in battles, he was rarely seen independently training his Pokémon. However, since Pokémon the Series: Ruby and Sapphire, Ash is shown training more noticeably, having practice battles with his friends and focusing on moves, techniques, and strategies with his Pokémon. A noticeable trait of Ash's is his willingness to learn from both his victories and defeats. For example, after winning in a Gym battle against Winona in Sky High Gym Battle! and witnessing her Pokémon's powerful Aerial Ace, Ash was motivated to have his Swellow learn it. Even his losses can inspire him, such as when he lost to Clayton in Short and To the Punch! and decided to teach his Buizel one of the moves Clayton's Mr. Mime had used during their battle. He believes nothing he and his Pokémon do on their journey is a waste of time.

In the beginning of the anime, Ash had a bit of an inferiority complex, as well as some form of personal pride, most likely stemming from his rivalry with Gary. As a result, he had some bad habits, such as shamelessly boasting of his skill if he were ever on a winning streak, and becoming angered easily if he were personally insulted, as seen in The Path to the Pokémon League. Ash used to complain about perfectly legal things, like Giselle's Cubone using a bone in The School of Hard Knocks, or Blaine's use of the lava in Volcanic Panic. He even locked himself up in his room and sulked after losing to Ritchie, although this anger was not entirely unfounded as the loss came as a result of both his Charizard's disobedience and Team Rocket wearing out his other Pokémon before the match began. He overcame his disappointment after seeing and listening to how Ritchie took his loss as a way to better himself as a Trainer in Friends to the End. Fortunately, during his journey, Ash has gotten over this particular character trait and is now more accepting of criticism of his skill, though he still gets upset if his Pokémon are insulted or degraded.


Ash and Paul
Perhaps one of Ash's greatest rivalries was against Paul during his time in the Sinnoh region. On the contrary of Ash, who strongly believed in the bond between Trainer and Pokémon, Paul's only concern was with a Pokémon's strength, believing that bonding only caused them to become spoiled and unmotivated. Due to this, aside from winning the Sinnoh League, Ash's biggest goal during his Sinnoh travels was to ultimately change Paul's mindset and have the latter finally acknowledge him as a Trainer worthy of his attention. After a long and exhausting journey, he finally managed to accomplish this after defeating Paul at the Lily of the Valley Conference, after which Paul finally recognized Ash as his rival and equal.

In most episodes of the anime, especially those during the Johto League arc, Ash befriends someone who will influence him and cause him to strive to become a better Trainer. Although he is not a dependent individual, he is still young and has learned to make his way relying on his friends, particularly the maternal skills of Brock. The honor of "best friend" is usually reserved for Pikachu, but Ash has come to see his closest human friends in the same light over time; using the term for Misty and Brock in Gotta Catch Ya Later! as well as May and Max in Battling the Enemy Within.

Ash has changed a great deal throughout the anime, particularly regarding his skill at Pokémon training, but his earnestness, rashness, and determination have remained. Never straying from his goal, he has remained loyal to his friends, family, and supporters, but most of all his Pokémon. Ash became a great Trainer by learning to find and use the inner strength of each of his Pokémon by bonding with them. For example, when he received a banner filled with prints from his Pokémon in The Unbeatable Lightness of Seeing!, he knew which Pokémon placed specific prints, showing his close bond with them. He also learns where their hidden abilities lie, as well as resorting to unorthodox strategies when fighting particularly challenging opponents. For example, he uses his Pikachu's speed to outmaneuver larger foes and attack. In another instance, his Charizard defeated Gary's Blastoise by causing the field to overheat before mounting a close-quarters attack while Blastoise was blinded by the steam. He also prefers to train a Pokémon to be the best it can be without forcing it to evolve, as evidenced by his treatment of Gligar in Fighting Fear With Fear!. He is happy when his Pokémon evolve but lets them choose whether or not they want to evolve instead of forcing them.


Ash after catching a Pokémon
Physically, Ash is in very good shape, especially for someone 10 years of age. He has a lot of stamina, walking miles upon miles through all kinds of environments while journeying between towns on his journey. He also has huge endurance, as seen when he took powerful attacks from various Pokémon head-on and then recovering quite quickly. Furthermore, Ash has demonstrated himself to be a bit acrobatic, occasionally being able to keep up with Iris, who virtually grew up swinging and jumping through treetops. Ash has occasionally displayed great reflexes, being able to dodge attacks or catch falling objects out of the blue, and even being able to save himself, or others, in the last second during perilous situations. What's more, Ash has exhibited tremendous willpower, as seen when he took attacks for long periods and keeps advancing, which also drives his "never give up" attitude when it comes to Pokémon battles. He is also strong, being capable of picking up heavy Pokémon such as Larvitar and Hippopotas.

Ash is also quite dense when it comes to matters of the field of romance. Throughout the anime, Ash has only displayed open interest in a female only once, and nothing came out of it. Though some girls in the anime have shown obvious (and subtle) affection towards him, Ash meets it with nearly unfailing obtuseness, which some characters have also noticed. Even when it involves other people's romance, Ash is usually oblivious until someone points it out to him. Also, on a few occasions when it came to a matter of Pokémon love, with a male who's experiencing difficulty in gaining the attention of a female, while his friends will often mainly advise on improving the male's looks or charm, Ash's advice is simply to be stronger. Despite this, however, it is shown on several occasions that Ash does seem to understand the concept of marriage, most notably in The Professors' New Adventure, when he got excited by the news of Professor Kukui and Professor Burnet's engagement, and subsequently worked with his classmates to organize a big wedding ceremony for them.

Early on, Ash originally trained not to further himself but instead to catch more Pokémon than Gary, a feat that he never accomplished. Ash later slowed his pace, which allowed him to focus on the individual traits of each Pokémon. At the Silver Conference, with great humility and maturity, Ash finally won a battle against his old rival, signifying a great milestone in his history as a Trainer. His maturity has also increased in his dealings with Pokémon. This was shown when a Mankey stole his hat in Primeape Goes Bananas, he screamed and yelled at it, even climbing trees just to get his hat back, but when an Aipom did the same in Slaking Kong, he stated merely that he would feel strange without a hat. When Aipom stole his hat again on several future occasions, however, while she was under his ownership, he chased after her in the same manner as before, most likely out of exasperation that she still hadn't learned her lesson.

Ash has traversed much of the Pokémon world and has thus far participated in various Pokémon League Conferences, but he is still learning new things about Pokémon all the time. He has also gained a close connection with many Legendary and Mythical Pokémon, such as the ones who played major roles in the movies. In the English dub second movie, he was revealed to be "The Chosen One" - the one who would bring balance back to the world when it was disrupted.


Ash using Aura inside the Tree of Beginning
Ash possesses some special abilities as he has the rare ability to use Aura. He is said to have the same Aura as Sir Aaron, a legendary hero, and is theoretically able to manipulate it in much the same way. Therefore, he made a connection with Sir Aaron's Lucario. However, he has not received any training in this field, opting to continue his Pokémon journey instead. He has also been likened to an ancient Aura guardian in The Keystone Pops!, who also had a partner Pikachu. Later, in Pokémon Ranger and the Kidnapped Riolu! Part 1 and Part 2, Ash uses Aura again to locate a lost Riolu and read its mind as well. This time, however, he merely senses the Aura, rather than manipulating it. In Caring for a Mystery!, an unhatched Riolu reacted to Ash's Aura, and he was able to sense the Egg's response, leading him to it. Ash also has the unique ability to use Bond Phenomenon. After he obtained a Key Stone, Ash's Aura powers were enhanced significantly, allowing him and his Lucario to sense each other from a great distance away. After training with Greninja, Ash, and Lucario were able to synchronize their Auras even better, allowing Lucario to make its Aura Sphere grow into massive proportions by drawing power from the Auras of its allies.

Though his passion remains in battling, Ash is always eager to try new things, especially if he can do them together with his Pokémon, having participated in other events like Pokémon Contests, PokéRinger tournaments, and even a fashion show and a cosplay convention as well as various other Pokémon competitions. He has Contest Passes for Sinnoh and Hoenn. Ash carries with him half of a broken Poké Ball, while Gary Oak has the other half, as a symbol of their ongoing, but now friendly, rivalry; Misty's special lure, which she sent to him as a gift; and half of the Terracotta Medal he received after his Contest Battle with May in the unofficial Terracotta Contest ended in a tie.


Ash and his Alolan family
His father has not been introduced. The anime suggests that his father was once a Pokémon Trainer who began his journey in Pallet Town and that he is still living. In the original, he is also confirmed to have a grandfather, whose son followed his footsteps. An interview with the anime's storyboard artist Masamitsu Hidaka confirmed Ash's father is a Trainer on his own journey. According to Hidaka, Ash's father may or may not be introduced in the anime, depending on its necessity to further Ash's maturity and development as a Trainer. On the other hand, according to Takeshi Shudō's novelization, Ash's father left home to go on a journey right after Ash was born and never returned since. As he never registered his name in the Pokémon Trainer's list, his whereabouts are unknown. However, during his time in Alola, Ash's family expanded with Professor Kukui and Professor Burnet, as shown in The Shape of Love to Come!, when Mina was making a family portrait of them and agreed with Lana when she called the Professors his Alolan family. Ash also gets an Alolan brother in Professor Kukui and Professor Burnet's son, Lei, as seen in That New Old Gang of Mine!.

Once he gained the title of Champion in the Alola region, Ash became a local celebrity there, as seen in All Out, All of the Time! and Helping the Hometown Hero!. After becoming the World Coronation Series Monarch, Ash became a more recognized figure in other regions, as seen in A Squad's Worth of Passion!.

Pokémon

Ash with his team and Pokémon at Oak's lab as of Friends, Rivals, Lend Me Your Spirit!

Some of the Pokémon Ash formerly traveled with (plus the Pink Butterfree)
As a Trainer, Ash has caught and befriended a sizable number of Pokémon throughout the anime. His philosophy on training is that Pokémon are individuals and that a combination of trust, friendship, and hard work are needed to overcome adversity. Several of Ash's Pokémon were caught because they allowed him to after he befriended them. He seems to battle best with Pokémon that are similar to Pikachu: ones that are speedy and maneuverable, yet able to perform high-powered attacks; however, he is willing to work with any Pokémon that comes into his care.

Ash's battle style is generally spontaneous and fairly unorthodox, and his Pokémon often reflect these traits. He often ignores type advantages and has been shown to use unusual strategies. For instance, during Pokémon the Series: Diamond and Pearl, he incorporated a twisting-spinning type maneuver in his Pokémon's offensive and defensive techniques, which eventually led to him creating the original technique, Counter Shield. Also, sometimes he will use someone else's battle strategies as shown with Paul and Tierno, though when using the latter's, Ash stated that his unique strategy is the one he can truly count on, instead of simply mimicking others.

Ash is very attached to his Pokémon and prefers to battle and train with them. Furthermore, he cares about their opinion, even giving them the option of whether they should evolve or not. As such, the majority of his Pokémon also share Ash's stubborn and reckless nature, persistently attempting to rise and continue the battle, even after receiving a great amount of damage and being at the end of their rope. However, if it is by their wish, or if he believes it is best for them, Ash will (if sometimes reluctantly) trade or release them, and in some cases, leave them with more experienced individuals so that they could train and get stronger. If Ash ever accidentally upsets his Pokémon, he will work hard to make amends and repair the bond with them.

Though Ash normally catches five or more Pokémon per region (not including when he traveled through the Orange Islands and challenged the Battle Frontier in his second tour of Kanto), he rarely ever switches the Pokémon in his current party with those in storage at Professor Oak's Laboratory. He usually only does so when battling against powerful opponents (such as Trainers in the Pokémon League Conferences, and Frontier Brains), or when attending certain events that require a specific Pokémon (like Tauros at the Pokémon Swap Meet or Snorlax at the Sumo Conference). However, during Pokémon the Series: Black & White, Ash actively cycled through the nine Pokémon he managed to catch in Unova, although these Pokémon when not in his party, were instead kept in storage at Professor Juniper's lab in Nuvema Town. Near the end of his journey in Unova, Professor Juniper transferred all of Ash's Pokémon to Professor Oak's lab. Ash did not use this system of training in the following series, though he did leave his Alolan party with Professors Kukui and Burnet at the end of Pokémon the Series: Sun & Moon.

Ash currently has ownership of 78 Pokémon, including all 30 of his Tauros. Including pre-evolved forms, traded, released, and given away Pokémon (and not including the additional Tauros), in total, Ash has currently officially owned a total of 98 different Pokémon species.

Achievements

Ash's Badge and trophy collection
Main article: Ash Ketchum's achievements
Pokémon League rankings
Ash has competed in the following Pokémon League Conferences:

Indigo Plateau Conference - Top 16 (Friend and Foe Alike)
Silver Conference - Top 8 (Johto Photo Finish)
Ever Grande Conference - Top 8 (At the End of the Fray)
Lily of the Valley Conference - Top 4 (The Semi-Final Frontier!)
Vertress Conference - Top 8 (A Unova League Evolution!)
Lumiose Conference - Runner-Up (Down to the Fiery Finish!)
Manalo Conference - Winner (Enter the Champion!)
Championship matches
Ash has challenged the following Pokémon championships as well:

Orange League - Winner (Enter The Dragonite)
World Coronation Series

Ash with the World Championship Trophy
Ash has competed in the World Coronation Series. His rank and class are as follows:

Rank 3,763 (Normal Class; as of Destination: Coronation!)
Rank 1,512 (Normal Class; as of Dreams Are Made of These!)
Rank 1,022 (Normal Class; as of A Festival Reunion!)
Rank 921 (Great Class; as of A Festival Reunion!)
Rank 901 (Great Class; as of Betrayed, Bothered, and Beleaguered!)
Rank 890 (Great Class; as of Trade, Borrow, and Steal!)
Rank 930 (Great Class; as of Solitary and Menacing!)
Rank 975 (Great Class; as of Making Battles in the Sand!)
Rank 1,021 (Normal Class; as of Making Battles in the Sand!)
Unknown rank (Great Class; as of Octo-Gridlock at the Gym!)
Rank 415 (Great Class; as of Trials of a Budding Master!)
Rank 381 (Great Class; as of Trials of a Budding Master!)
Rank 273 (Great Class; as of Beyond Chivalry… Aiming to be a Leek Master!)
Rank 184 (Great Class; as of Beyond Chivalry… Aiming to be a Leek Master!)
Rank 99 (Ultra Class; as of Thrash of the Titans!)
Rank 64 (Ultra Class; as of Ultra Exciting from the Shocking Start!)
Rank 36 (Ultra Class; as of A Battle of Mega Versus Max!)
Rank 15 (Ultra Class; as of Battling Turned Up to Eleven!)
Rank 9 (Ultra Class; as of Taking Two For The Team!)
Rank 8 (Master Class; as of Aim For The Eight!)
Monarch (Master Class; as of Partners in Time!)

Jaden:
---------------------------------
Personality
Jaden is friendly, optimistic, laid-back, enthusiastic, kind, confident, funny, and very passionate about Dueling. Jaden loves Dueling and believes that all problems can ultimately be solved through it. He keeps going no matter how hard things get or how hopeless it seems, with a few exceptions (though it doesn't take much encouragement for him to start fighting again), although he does sometimes doubt himself. He always shows respect towards his opponents, with a few exceptions, even complimenting them during a Duel.

Jaden shows little interest in areas outside of Dueling, which extends to his classes. When he chooses to attend them, he generally falls asleep. Despite his low grades, he is still regarded as one of Duel Academy's best Duelists. However, this attitude eventually shows itself as one of his greatest flaws, and causes him to be targeted by Mr. Stein. He shows a lack of knowledge in areas outside of Dueling, even showing in one instance that he is unaware of what the term "fiancee" means, and forgetting that the holographic water will not drown him in another.

Jaden also seems to be ignorant of the dislike that other individuals have for him, as despite the obvious tension between the two, he considers himself to be good friends with Chazz Princeton. His carefree attitude and lack of thought get him into trouble occasionally, such as when he handed the Satellite Keys to Sartorius and still expected the latter to Duel him before using them. He occasionally shows signs of intellect, such as determining that Titan's Shadow Game was a fake, and figuring out that both Brier and Beauregard were the Duel Giant on another occasion.

One of Jaden's common traits is that he tends to make jokes or puns, even in some situations where it is not appropriate. Most of the jokes he makes are Duel-related but on a few occasions he does make jokes at someone's expense. For example, he called Crowler "Cyclops" when the latter got struck in the eye with a tennis ball. Another example is when Jaden Duels The Society of Light controlled Alexis and she tells him to "Throw in the game" to which the former replies "The only thing I throw in is the towel on laundry day."

Jaden has a close bond with his cards, to the point where he has no problem with an opponent insulting him, but is angered when they insult his cards. An example of this is when Crowler calls his "Winged Kuriboh" lame and Jaden immediately gets angry; this happens also when Gravekeeper's Chief repeatedly refers to Winged Kuriboh as a "rodent". Jaden is also fiercely loyal to his friends, which often results in his risking his life to save them. This is ultimately exploited by Yubel and Brron, who drive him to the brink of despair via the elimination of his loved ones as he demonstrates his unnatural rage, which weakens him enough to be possessed by the spirit of his ancestor. After being freed from the influence of The Supreme King, Jaden shows many signs of depression, and constantly asks himself where he went wrong, and is horrified by what he's done while ruling the alternate dimension. Even after the sacrifice of Aster Phoenix, Jaden is still unable to regain his resolve. When confronted by Guardian Baou, Jaden even resigns himself to be killed at the same spot his friends were sacrificed. His resolve is stirred by the arrival of Bastion Misawa, who reveals that Yubel is responsible for everything that's transpired and want Jaden to become the next Supreme King. Wanting revenge, Jaden defeats Baou and moves on, witnessing what he believed to be the death of Zane Truesdale, which stirs him to continue.

After his ordeal in season three, Jaden develops a much more cynical outlook on life and is far more brooding and serious. He finds himself unable to enjoy Dueling and attempts to end his Duels as quickly as possible. He even ceases to use his catchphrases. Despite still caring deeply for his friends, he is much more distant towards them, not wanting them to be hurt by the danger his presence tends to attract. He begins to recover his love of Dueling during the Pair Duel tournament and fully recovers it during his Duel against Yugi. This is proven in Yu-Gi-Oh! 3D Bonds Beyond Time. Even when Jaden was still fused with Yubel and the Supreme King, he showed the same personality as the one he had in the first three seasons, showing that he in fact loves having a good time and Dueling again.

Abilities
Jaden has an incredible luck of the draw, as demonstrated when he went on a 10-day streak of drawing the Golden Eggwich correctly. He has also demonstrated this when he correctly picked a Joker from a pair of playing cards and picked a salmon-flavored sushi from among apricot, dried-fish, and salmon-flavored sushi (which were virtually indistinguishable from an outside perspective).[10] When Dueling Jaden often draws the exact card he needs to win through sheer luck rather than supernatural powers.

Jaden demonstrated incredible athletic abilities, seen when he jumped into the air at a great height to hit a tennis ball served by Mindy. After he fused Yubel's soul with his own, his athletic ability has shown to have increased. He was seen jumping on platforms while trying to escape from an exploding KaibaCorp building, as well as jumping from building to building when he was attacked by Paradox.

Jaden has had an ability called the The Gentle Darkness inside his soul, which gives him the power to see and hear Duel Monster spirits and control them. This is the main power that is used by the Supreme King that Jaden inherited from his past life. While under the Supreme Kings persona, Jaden quickly established his own monarch of Duel Monster Spirits. Supposedly, this power also created the "Dark Fusion" Spell and the Evil Hero counterparts of his Elemental Heroes. In the fourth season, Jaden can use it to materialize Duel Monsters and their powers. After the events in the Dimension World arc, Jaden now has the power of Yubel and the Supreme King inside him. When he materializes his Duel Monsters, he can make them even stronger. Yubel's power allows him to sense people's thoughts and emotions, see visions of the future, and protects him from other supernatural powers, like hypnosis and Nightshroud's influence. Yubel's powers also let him quickly figure out that Honest was masquerading as Fujiwara. Jaden's eyes take the same color as Yubel's or the Supreme King when manifesting either of their abilities. He is also able to project his voice out for people in yonder reach to hear, as shown in the final Duel with Nightshroud.

Due to being fused with Yubel, Nightshroud described Jaden as not a human being, but a strange blend between a human and a Duel Monster spirit and refered to him as a "foreign object".

Etymology
The word "Judai" means "teenager." "Yuki", if not following the kanji, has multiple meanings, the most common being "courage;" thus it can be inferred into the phrase "courageous teenager." It should also be noted that the kanji for "Yuki" is the combination of Yugi and Joey's Japanese given names. His English given name means "gift from God." Jaden is the only protagonist to have his first name changed in the dub. He is also the only protagonist whose given name does not contain "Yu"; instead, his surname contains it.

Biography
History
Young Jaden and Yubel
Jaden during his childhood with Yubel watching over him.

As a child, Jaden loved Duel Monsters and from an early age was able to sense Duel Monster Spirits. Both of his parents, however, were rarely at home, as they were busy working. As a result, Jaden spent many of his days playing Duel Monsters with neighborhood children. His favorite card was "Yubel", which was a gift from his father. Due to this and his ability to sense and speak to Duel Spirits, Jaden formed a strong connection and bond with the card’s spirit. However, whenever Jaden played "Yubel", something horrible would happen to his opponent. The first of them was Osamu, a neighborhood friend of Jaden’s.

YoungJaden
Jaden as a child, drawing his card designs for KaibaCorp's contest.

After Osamu defeated Jaden in a duel, he fell into a coma which was caused by Yubel. This was because the spirit of the "Yubel" card was overly protective of Jaden and sought to punish any and all perceived threats to him and their friendship. This included his dueling opponents, as well as anyone who dared to anger it by causing Jaden sadness. After that incident, no one wished to duel Jaden anymore so long as he kept Yubel in his deck, as they feared for their safety.[12] Despite realizing that Yubel was the cause of these incidents, Jaden refused to throw her card away, due to the strong bond he held with her. As a result, Jaden was alienated by others and lost all his friends, causing him to suffer from extreme loneliness.

Around this time, Jaden entered a card design contest held by KaibaCorp, and won with his monster designs, which included the "Neo-Spacians" and "Dandylion."[15] As part of the project, the cards he designed were launched into space, with the hopes that the cards would be imbued with space waves. Jaden also requested that his "Yubel" card be sent up in a separate capsule, hoping that the space waves would pacify the malicious spirit of the card.[12] Soon after, Jaden began having nightmares where he would see Yubel burning in flames. These nightmares were actually Yubel psychically communicating with Jaden, in the hopes of being rescued from her painful exposure to the Light of Destruction. Due to his nightmares, Jaden couldn’t get any sleep which led his parents to arranged for him to have a medical procedure performed on him, which not only stopped the nightmares but also inadvertently suppressed all memories of Yubel.[16] Also, Jaden's medical procedure erased the memories of him participating in the card design contest.
He attended Duel Academy and was put in the Slifer Red Dorm, the dorm with the least privileges, due to his poor grades in the entrance exam. As time goes on, he becomes the academy's best Duelist and saves the world and the academy from many threats such as Kagemaru and the Shadow Riders, the Light of Destruction possessed Sartorius, Yubel, and finally the malicious entity Nightshroud. After three years, he graduates from Duel Academy and pursues his own journey to improve himself.
Jaden overslept on the morning that he was scheduled to take his entrance exam in order to enroll in the Academy. As he rushed through the streets to make it to the test center in time, he bumped into Yugi Muto, dropping his cards in the process. Yugi asked Jaden if he was a Duelist and gave him a "Winged Kuriboh" card, telling Jaden that he felt that "the card belongs with him." When he arrived, the head teacher at Duel Academy, Dr. Crowler, was hesitant to allow Jaden to take his exam, but a phone call from his superior, Chancellor Sheppard changed his mind. Crowler dueled Jaden himself, and disregarded the rule that he is to use an exam Deck, instead using his personal Deck. Jaden is impressed by Crowler's "Ancient Gear Golem," but is able to hold off its attack with "Winged Kuriboh," whose spirit he is capable of seeing and communicating with, something that most people would not be able to do. He proceeds to win the Duel using "Elemental Hero Flame Wingman" and "Skyscraper," with him citing the former as his favorite card.[1]

Jaden is accepted into Duel Academy and is placed in the Slifer Red dorm, which is the lowest-ranked of the three dorms. Jaden's roommates were Syrus Truesdale and Chumley Huffington. Jaden would then get himself in a confrontation with Chazz Princeton, an Obelisk Blue student who had witnessed Crowler's defeat to Jaden. Believing his victory to be a fluke, Chazz challenged Jaden to a Duel, which is interrupted midway through. Though Chazz believed he would have won, Jaden had just drawn a card that would win him the Duel.[2] Dr. Crowler, eager to exact his revenge on Jaden, began plans to get him expelled. He placed a fake love note in Jaden's gym locker, on which he had forged the signature of Alexis Rhodes, one of the top female students. Syrus found the note instead of Jaden, and rowed across the lake to the girls dorm. Jaden followed and saved Syrus from expulsion by defeating Alexis in a Duel.[17] The owner of Duel Academy's card shop, Ms. Dorothy, gifted Jaden with some rare cards after he helped her push her van up the hill when it stalled. In Duel Academy's promotion exams, Jaden had his rematch with Chazz, who had been supplied powerful cards by Dr. Crowler. Jaden's use of "Transcendent Wings" to evolve "Winged Kuriboh" to level ten won him the Duel, and he is therefore allowed to move up to the Ra Yellow dorm but he declined the opportunity.[18]

Crowler's crusade against Jaden continued, with him sending Titan, a self-proclaimed "Shadow Duelist" to defeat Jaden. Titan used illusions to make it appear he had the ability to start Shadow Duels. Jaden was skeptical throughout the whole Duel, and is proven correct - it was a sham. They Duel in the Abandoned Dorm, and the spirits of the dorm are angered by Titan. A real Shadow Duel actually did begin - with Jaden still refusing to believe in it until the Duel's end, when he is saved by Winged Kuriboh.[19][20] Due to their trespass at the Abandoned Dorm, both Jaden and Syrus were nearly expelled. They got a chance to stay by participating in a Tag Duel. Should they win, their records would be cleared. Jaden Dueled Syrus as practice for the latter, and Jaden defeated him. Finding that Syrus had confidence problems, he is then told by Alexis that they stem from Syrus' relationship with his older brother, Zane Truesdale, who is known as the best Duelist at the academy.[21] Determined to help Syrus and to see how he ranks against the best, Jaden challenged Zane to a Duel. Though the latter compliments Jaden's abilities, Jaden suffers his first loss since arriving at the academy, losing to Zane's "Cyber End Dragon." Despite this, Jaden does not get upset over his loss and thanks Zane for dueling with him. The duel between him and Zane helped spur Syrus' confidence.[22] The two were unable to function as a team in their Duel against the Paradox Brothers at first,[23] but pulled things together in the end, allowing them to stay at the academy.[24]

Jaden developed a friendship and rivalry with Bastion Misawa. Both had expressed desire to Duel one another since witnessing their respective entrance exams. After Bastion's victory with a Duel against Chazz, he was offered a promotion to Obelisk Blue but declines, stating he will not enter it until he becomes the best student in the freshman class. To do so, he believes he needs to defeat Jaden. However, he does not wish to Duel him right away, as he wished to develop a Deck specifically to counter Jaden's.[3] When Chazz leaves Duel Academy Jaden and Syrus try to find him with Jasmine Mindy and Alexis. On the way they encounter Wheeler a cybernetic monkey who kidnaps Jasmine. Jaden and the others try to save her. Wheeler's doctor arrives and says that the monkey only knows dueling. Jaden beats him in a duel and lets Wheeler live with his family. [25] Jaden stayed at Duel Academy during winter break, finding himself in a life-threatening Duel with the spirit of the "Jinzo" card. Jaden felt real pain as his Life Points decreased, and his body parts fade as he is attacked. Though he wins, he gets his first taste of a Shadow Duel,[26] though he does not realize this until a later date.[27] Jaden then found himself in a Duel over the affections of Alexis against the captain of Duel Academy's tennis team, Harrington Rosewood. Harrington gets an early lead during the Duel with his "Ace" cards. After Jaden deals major damage to him via direct attacks, he then activates "Deuce" and almost wins with its effect, but Jaden was able to save himself win the Duel, becoming Alexis' fiancee as per the terms that Harrington set. However, he has no clue what fiancee means. Alexis calls him an idiot in response (in the English version, she tells that it means they're just friends, "for now").[28]

Jaden got an opportunity to Duel against the Deck of Yugi Muto when the said Deck went on tour at Duel Academy. A copycat Duelist named Dimitri stole the Deck and Jaden Dueled him to get it back. He found himself in awe of Yugi's monsters, and was excited when he defeated "Dark Magician" with "Elemental Hero Bladedge". However, Dimitri Summoned "Dark Magician of Chaos," which devastates Jaden.[29] He hung on, and successfully defeated Dimitri with "Flame Wingman," recovering the Deck.[30] Jaden later welcomes a new student named Blair Flannigan to Duel Academy. However it's revealed she is a girl and after Jaden beats her in a Duel she says that she came to meet Zane. However, she leaves because she is too young.[31] Jaden is nominated by Zane to be the academy's representative against North Academy, with Chancellor Sheppard accepting it. Crowler nominated Bastion in response, and he proposed the two of them Duel in order to decide who the representative would be. Bastion claims that he's nearly finished his Deck that will counter Jaden's strategy. Jaden gained an early advantage in the Duel, but is set back when Bastion negated "Polymerization" with "Cursed Seal of the Forbidden Spell", preventing Jaden from Fusion Summoning in the usual way.[4] Jaden is forced to play defensively as Bastion's "Water Dragon" and "Hyozanryu" destroyed his monsters. Jaden unveiled a new "Elemental Hero" - "Wildheart." Using it and and "Cyclone Boomerang," Jaden won the Duel via effect damage. Bastion then promised to create another Deck to challenge Jaden again someday.[32] Jaden found his rivalry with Chazz renewed when the latter returned to Duel Academy as the representative of North Academy. Jaden overheard an outburst of Chazz's, in which he expressed dislike for the burden Slade Princeton and Jagger Princeton put on him to win. Chazz unveils new "Armed Dragon" cards which prove to be more effective against Jaden than his previous Decks had been.[33] Jaden is surprised to discover that Chazz has gained a Spirit Partner in Ojama Yellow and that Chazz can see Duel Spirits as well. Jaden won using a strategy involving "Hero Kid." Chazz's brothers berate him after the Duel, and Jaden steps in to defend him. Chazz decided to remain at Duel Academy afterward.[34]

Against the Shadow Riders
The Slifer Red dorm head and alchemy professor, Lyman Banner, held a hike and picnic to the ruins that exist on the island. Jaden, Syrus, Chumley and Alexis attended. While there, they appear to be transported to the past, to a time when the ruins were still in use. Jaden's friends were captured, but Jaden himself is saved by Yasmin. He eventually ends up in a Duel against Gravekeeper's Chief, in which he and his friends will be buried alive if he loses. He found that the pain he experiences from losing Life Points to be real.[35] Jaden narrowly defeated the Chief by using the effect of his "Elemental Hero Necroshade" to Summon "Elemental Hero Bladedge". The Chief gifted Jaden with one half of a Shadow Charm pendent after the Duel, stating that it should help protect him in any further Shadow Duels he may participate in. The group is returned to their own time.[36]

Chancellor Sheppard selected Jaden as one of the seven Duelists to hold the Spirit Keys. These keys unseal the Spirit Gates, behind which the Sacred Beast cards are sealed. The legend goes that if the cards are released, a catastrophe will occur. A group of individuals known as the Shadow Riders will arrive and attempt to steal the keys. Jaden believed he will be targeted first, believing himself to be the strongest target. Alexis also believed Jaden will be first, as his Slifer Red uniform marks him as a weaker Duelist. In attempting to warn Jaden of this, she is transported to the volcano with Jaden, where the first Shadow Rider, Nightshroud, awaits. As it turns out, he targeted Jaden for neither of the previously given reasons - he did so because he owns the other half of the Shadow Charm pendent, which pointed him in Jaden's direction. Syrus and Chumley are taken hostage, so Jaden accepted the Shadow Duel, in which the loser's soul will be sealed in a card. Nightshroud gained an early advantage by combining "Red-Eyes Black Dragon" and "Inferno Fire Blast".[27] Jaden made a comeback, but Nightshroud unveils "Red-Eyes Darkness Dragon". Jaden narrowly avoided defeat by Summoning "Elemental Hero Wildedge". Nightshroud's soul was sealed in the card, but he remains barely conscious, as Nightshroud was controlling someone else - the brother of Alexis, Atticus Rhodes.[37]

Left weak from his Duel with Nightshroud, Jaden watched from the sidelines as Dr. Crowler is defeated by the second Shadow Rider, the vampire known as Camula, having his soul sealed in a doll in the process.[38] He then also witnessed Zane who meets the same fate when Camula threatens Syrus' soul.[39] Enraged by the fall of his friends, Jaden challenged Camula after Atticus informed him that his complete Shadow Charm may be able to negate the power of Camula's and prevent souls from being stolen during the Duel. This turned out to be true, as Camula is forced to use her own soul as a cost in the activation of "Illusion Gate," rather than a spectator's as she had against Zane. Jaden was able to defeat her with "Elemental Hero Shining Flare Wingman," who gains ATK for each fallen "Elemental Hero" in the Graveyard. With this, Camula's soul was taken by "Illusion Gate" and the souls of Crowler and Zane were restored.[40]

Jaden began having nightmares regarding losing Shadow Duels, knowing that great harm could come to his friends. While trying to relax at the hot springs, he, Syrus, Chumley and Chazz are pulled through a portal to an underground cave. They are confronted by Kaibaman, causing Jaden to question if the latter is a Shadow Rider. He refused to answer, instead wishing to Duel, stating that Jaden seemed to have lost his fighting spirit. Kaibaman used the same Deck as Seto Kaiba, and Jaden is ultimately defeated. However, he realized that he still had fun during the Duel and Kaibaman taught him that if he is scared of defeat, he will cease to grow as a Duelist.[41]. When Slade challenges Chazz to a duel for the fate of Duel Academy, Jaden accompanies Chazz to the Reject Well to find monsters with less than 500 attack points. They find Ojama Black and Ojama Green who end up in Chazz's deck. Chazz uses his new monsters to defeat Slade and save Duel Academy[42].Jaden is present when Bastion is defeated by the third Shadow Rider, Tania, who takes him as her "husband" afterwards.[5] Jaden overcame her "Amazoness" monsters using "Wildheart" and the effect of her own Field Spell Card, "Amazoness Arena".[43] Jaden ends up mistaking a submarine captain named Admiral for the next Shadow Rider and though Jaden defeats him, Admiral kidnapped him, hoping to make him the top student at his planned underwater Duel Academy. Jaden stole an escape boat in order to get away, but did not make it back to Duel Academy until three days later.[44]

Jaden's next opponent was Abidos the Third, an ancient pharaoh revived by the Shadow Riders who was once known as the "God of Duels." Jaden defeated him with fewer problems than expected, and Abidos realized that his servants had always let him win. Abidos is impressed by Jaden's Dueling and returns to the afterlife, with Jaden promising to meet him there when he dies so that they can Duel again.[45] Alexis and Chazz successfully defeated Shadow Riders Titan and Don Zaloog, respectively.[46][47] After that, only one Shadow Rider remaining. During this time, Professor Banner disappeared, and both Chazz and Alexis are defeated by the final Shadow Rider. Jaden confronts him in the basement of the Abandoned Dorm. He eventually revealed himself as Professor Banner. He stated that Jaden must prove himself as the "ultimate alchemist", comparing Jaden's process of using "Polymerization" to fuse monsters to be similar to alchemic processes.[48] Banner explained that he came down with an illness after traveling the world in the name of alchemy, and was forced to entrust his soul to a homunculus in order to survive. Wishing to pay back the one who funded his research, he aimed to obtain the Sacred Beasts. Banner is eventually defeated when Jaden countered the latter's removed from play strategy with "Elemental Hero Electrum." Banner left his Emerald Tablet Shadow Charm to Jaden, warning him of the impending disaster that the Sacred Beasts will bring about.[49]

After Chazz loses to Alexis in a duel, Jaden witnessed the Spirit Gates open, without the aid of the Spirit Keys, which Chazz currently had. The keys led them to the gates, at which point the keys disappeared into the seven pillars surrounding the area. The ground quaked, and a black box rose from the center of the gates, inside of which was a smaller, box that contains the Sacred Beasts. The true mastermind of the ploy revealed himself - Kagemaru, the elderly Chairman of Duel Academy. He intends to use the powers of the Beasts to restore his own youth. He specifically challenged Jaden to a Duel in favor of rest of the gathered students and teachers. Jaden found "Sabatiel - The Philosopher's Stone" inside the Emerald Tablet, and places it in his Deck. From within a life support tube supported by a spider-walker, Kagemaru Duels Jaden. Kagemaru Summoned "Uria, Lord of Searing Flames" and "Hamon, Lord of Striking Thunder," which drove Jaden into a corner. With two Beasts present, they began to absorb energy from card spirits around the world, which was then used to restore Kagemaru's youth. He appears a young man once more, and continued the Duel.[50] Using a series of Spell and Trap Cards, Jaden destroyed both of the Beasts with "Elemental Hero Neo Bubbleman." Kagemaru was able to revive them, however, and further Summoned the third Beast - "Raviel, Lord of Phantasms." Jaden used the "Sabatiel the philosopher's stone" card to his advantage, and was able to pentuple the ATK of "Electrum" to win the Duel. The power absorbed is returned to the Duel Spirits, and Kagemaru became elderly once more. He begged for forgiveness, and Jaden easily gave it to him, while motivating him to try to stand on his own. Jaden proceeded to accidentally injure the old man with a hug.[51]

Jaden was present at Chumley's Duel with Dr. Crowler, and supported his friend before he departed to become a card designer for Industrial Illusions.[52] Jaden is then chosen by Zane to be the latter's final opponent before his graduation, in a match that the whole school will attend. Jaden accepted the Duel. Knowing that Zane was a powerful opponent who defeated him before, Jaden attempted to think his way through the Duel, which backfired as he misplayed his cards and failed to enjoy himself as he usually would.. Zane gains an advantage by constantly fusing and splitting his "Cyber End Dragon".[53] Zane snapped Jaden out of his rut, and the latter began to Duel with his heart once more, rather than his head. In this way, Jaden became the opponent that Zane had wanted him to be. Both Duelists were able to counter the strategies of the other, and Duel ultimately ended in a DRAW as the crowd applauded the spectacle.[54]

Society of Light
Ep 53
Jaden Dueling Aster for the first time.

Jaden has begun his second year at Duel Academy. Unaware of new student Aster Phoenix's status as a pro, Jaden Duels him, eager to teach a new student about Dueling. During the Duel, Ms. Dorothy reveals that Aster constructed the Deck out of eight packs of cards he purchased that morning. Jaden attempts to give him advice, which Aster pretends to take. Aster is not impressed by Jaden, and leaves after being defeated. Later, after the Duel, Syrus Truesdale realizes who Aster really was, and Jaden is eager to have a rematch with Aster when the latter is using his true Deck. The next day he, Syrus and Alexis watch Chazz duel Reginald Van Howell III where he learns that Crowler made Chazz the star to increase publicity much to his confusion. Chazz gives a speech about no matter the rank he will still win causing Jaden to feel impressed by his change in character. After Chazz wins Jaden rushes up to his rival and thanks him for defending the Slivers even though Chazz argued that it was not his intention to do so. Jaden then learns from Syrus that Bonaparte and Crowler plan to remove the Slifer dorm.

A few days later, Syrus and Jaden are walking through the woods. The duo got caught sleeping in class, so Crowler is making them deliver 14 new Duel Disks to students who had lost theirs. Jaden wonders why so many people were losing their Disks, and Syrus explains it's because of a bully that is challenging them to Duels and then taking them. Syrus had lost to this bully as well, so Jaden decides it's time to confront this guy and get the disks back. They run to river, and standing on the bridge is the bully,Tyranno Hassleberry, the same Ra Yellow student that was picking on Crowler and Bonaparte when he arrived at the school. He tries to intimidate Jaden with his strength, but Jaden just shrugs it off and challenges him to a Duel. Hassleberry also has a bunch of other Ra Yellows who support him like an army troop. They and Syrus watch the Duel, and Jaden states that if he wins, Hassleberry has to give all the Duel Disks he stole back. Although Hassleberry fights admirably, he still loses to Jaden's combo of fusing "Elemental Hero Avian" and "Elemental Hero Wildheart" with "Polymerization" to Fusion Summon "Elemental Hero Wild Wingman" and in the end, using "De-Fusion" to separate them back. After the Duel, Hassleberry agrees to give back the Duel Disks. Later that night, Hassleberry moves to the Slifer dorm, having decided to live in the dorm because he feels that he could learn a lot about Dueling from Jaden. Jaden later encourages Syrus to have more faith in himself as a duelist when the latter is chosen by Jean-Louis Bonaparte to duel Missy. The Vice Chancellor says if Syrus wins than he will be moved up Ra Yellow. Syrus eventually wins and gives Jaden Power Bond.

Sometime later, Jaden has just recently finished a Duel with Bastion Misawa in the Duel Arena, using "Elemental Hero Shining Flare Wingman" to destroy "Water Dragon" to get the win. That night, the group gathers inside the Slifer Red dorm to watch Zane Truesdale's next Pro League match. Finding out that Zane's opponent will be Aster Phoenix, Jaden is eager to see what Aster's actual Deck consists of. To everyone's surprise including Zane's, Aster reveals that his Deck has an "Elemental Hero" theme, similar to Jaden's. However, when Aster fuses Elemental Heroes "Avian" and "Burstinatrix", he does not Fusion Summon "Elemental Hero Flame Wingman", but "Elemental Hero Phoenix Enforcer". To his friends' amazement, Jaden was unaware that this Fusion Monster even existed. Aster counters nearly every move Zane makes and even causes him to take damage from "Power Bond". The Duel ultimately ends with Aster the winner, much to the shock of all of Duel Academy.

Aster Phoenix holds a press conference after his defeat of Zane Truesdale in the Pro League. He issues a challenge to Jaden Yuki, knowing that both of them play "Elemental Heroes". He states he'll be coming to Duel Academy tomorrow. Aster meets with his manager, Sartorius. Aster doesn't seem to have any real interest in Dueling Jaden, but is doing so once more on Sartorius' advice. Aster arrives that night by skysurfing. Aster thwarts the escape of a man who was robbing Duel Academy's card shop. He appears to be looking for a certain card and when he does not find it, he tosses the man's cards causally on the ground. The Duel begins and Aster Summons "Shining Phoenix Enforcer" while Jaden Summons " Shining Flare Wingman". Aster uses a strange Field Spell Card called "Clock Tower Prison", which appears to turn its hands each turn and do nothing else. Aster plays "D - Time" and Special Summons "Destiny Hero - Doom Lord", a monster that no one in the crowd is familiar with. Its effect removes "Shining Flare Wingman" from play.

Aster unveils his "Destiny Heroes" and Jaden's "Elemental Heroes" can't seem to compete. Despite the "Destiny Heroes" relatively low attack points, their effects push Jaden into a corner, as Aster uses "Misfortune" to deal damage while continuing to place Clock Counters on "Clock Tower Prison". On the turn that the fourth Clock Counter is placed, Jaden would be able to deal enough damage to win. However, "Clock Tower Prison" renders Aster immune to damage when it has enough Counters. Jaden plays "Fusion Gate" and because "Clock Tower Prison" was destroyed, Aster can Summon his ultimate monster - "Destiny Hero - Dreadmaster", whose ATK are equal to the sum of the attack points of the other "Destiny Heroes" on the Field.

Jaden beaten by Aster
Jaden passed out after being defeated by Aster.

Aster explains his past. His father was a card designer for Industrial Illusions, who designed the "Destiny Heroes" himself. One day, Aster came home to find his father dead (kidnapped in the dub). The person who did it also took one of the "Destiny Hero" cards, which was known to be the most powerful among them. Aster's vigilante activity is centered around stopping crime to find the person who took his father from him, as he would be able to identify them by their possession of the stolen card. His "Dreadmaster" negates the effect of Jaden's "Elemental Hero Thunder Giant" and wins Aster the Duel with its attack. Jaden falls to the ground, his cards flying about, and they turn blank as he falls.

After Jaden Yuki's loss to Aster Phoenix, he claims he can't see his cards and they're blank. However, this appears to be how Jaden sees his Deck as everyone else sees nothing wrong with his cards. Everyone, Syrus Truesdale the most, is worried about it. Jaden ultimately decided to leave Duel Academy.

Later, Jaden Yuki is stranded in a boat when a comet hits. Afterwards, he is transported into Neo Space, a Duel Monsters Spirit World that represents and protects the delicate balance between Light and Darkness. Within this Limbo, Jaden ends up on a planet called Dolphina (which apparently is an uncharted planet neighboring Jupiter), where he is greeted by a dolphin-like creature named "Aquos" (who is later revealed to be the spirit of "Neo-Spacian Aqua Dolphin"), who explains that "the Gentle Darkness" is in danger of being obliterated by a mysterious "Dark Light", and only Jaden Yuki is able to fight off this entity and save the universe.

JadenAquos
Jaden Dueling the robot with Aquos watching.

Just then, an unusual Duel Robot sent by this "Dark Light" arrives, and Jaden must defeat it in a Duel, using cards salvaged from a satellite. Jaden's was in shocked when he can see the cards he was holding but was more shocked when he discovers that the cards were contained within a KaibaCorp satellite, which was carrying cards he'd designed for a global contest held by Seto Kaiba a few years ago. Seeing this and due to his suppressed memories from his medical treatment he went through as a child, Jaden figures out and realizes that he was the winner of the contest.

After winning the Duel, Jaden rediscovers his love for Dueling and regains his resolve, and then sets out to return to Duel Academy and stop this mysterious "Light", however while Jaden finds himself back on Duel Academy, he finds that he is in a forest that is far from where the school building actually is. As his friends deal with the problems around them, Jaden is still trying to find his way back to the Duel Academy building. He complains that he is hungry and wants some curry right now. The rivalry between Syrus Truesdale and Tyranno Hassleberry intensifies, even with Jaden absent. At the suggestion of Alexis Rhodes, the two decide to Duel to decide who Jaden's true "best friend" ("aniki" or "little brother" in the Japanese version). Jaden himself is close to getting back, and is climbing the cliff face on the opposite end of the island. Sometime later, Syrus and Hassleberry are eating in the Slifer Red dorm, and the dinner is Jaden Yuki's favorite - fried shrimp. They eat the shrimp that was intended for Jaden, as he isn't there, and hope that wherever he is, he's not starving. Jaden is still wandering through the forest at the point, and comments that he suddenly tastes fried shrimp, which only makes him hungrier. Wheeler the monkey is also in the forest, pushing a large cart of discarded furniture. He finds Jaden, who has collapsed from hunger. He wakes him up, and Jaden hallucinates that the cart of furniture is really "Ancient Gear Golem". Jaden then has a flashback to his Duel with Dr. Crowler in episode 1.

After that, Jaden sees Wheeler hitting his cart with his fist, and imagines that he's Bastion Misawa, thus having a flashback to his Duel with him in episode 22. After this, he imagines that Wheeler is actually Chazz Princeton and has flashbacks to their Duel in episode episode 4. After this, he proceeds to imagine that the monkey is Zane Truesdale and flashes back to episode 8. After that's over, Wheeler throws a bucket of water at Jaden, and this finally wakes him up fully. He also gives him a bunch of bananas to eat. Jaden thanks him, and heads off to continue his trip back to Duel Academy. However, he ends up going the wrong way, this despite the fact that Duel Academy is visible through the trees in the direction he doesn't take. There is also a sign in that direction pointing towards Duel Academy. Jaden's stupidity actually causes the inanimate roadsign to sweat drop and face fault.

A few days later, Alexis Rhodes is set to Duel Aster Phoenix. The fate of the Slifer Red dorm hangs in the balance. If Aster wins, then it will be demolished. If Alexis wins the dorm remains. Vice-Chancellor Bonaparte is confident that Aster will win, being Pro League Duelist. Jaden finally makes it back to Duel Academy and is lead by a light into a cave. He meets another "Neo-Spacian" there, and then hurries to the Academy. He takes Alexis' place in the Duel, and his rematch with Aster begins. Aster uses his "Destiny Heroes" again, and Jaden unveils Contact Fusion, which the "Neo-Spacians" can use to fuse with "Elemental Hero Neos" without "Polymerization". However, even he was unaware that this results in the Fusion Monster returning to the Fusion Deck at the End Phase, and is reduced to 200 Life Points via direct attacks as a result. Aster is confident he will win since Jaden has no clue on how to use his new cards, but Jaden refuses to give up and notes to himself, he still has a lot to learn about his new Deck as "Elemental Hero Aqua Neos" went back to his Fusion Deck on the End Phase without his knowledge. The two Duelists continually counter the moves of the other, revealing more and more of their new Decks. Aster soon gets out "Destiny Hero - Dogma". Jaden saves himself from an attack that would end the Duel, but now both players are down to a few Life Points. Jaden is still confident he can continue, but Aster doesn't believe so, claiming there is no monster in Jaden's Deck that can help him. Jaden states that may have been the case with his old Deck, but it won't be with his new one. He decides to prove so by showing Aster a brand new hero in his Deck. Jaden then plays "Neo Space", which lets his "Neos" Fusion Monsters remain on the field past the End Phase, and Summons "Elemental Hero Flare Neos". Jaden attacks, but Aster quickly plays "D - Shield" to save himself. Aster then proceeds to switch his "Dogma" into Attack Position and equip it with "Heavy Storm Blade". Aster attacks which surprises everyone, however doing so activates the effect of "Heavy Storm Blade", destroying every Spell and Trap on the field besides "Heavy Storm Blade". This weakens "Flare Neos" and "Dogma" then attacks it. However the attack doesn't go through and soon enough "Heavy Storm Blade" begins to crack (which shocks Aster). Jaden reveals that the set card Aster destroyed with "Heavy Storm Blade" was "Spell Calling" which allowed Jaden to set two face-down cards after it was destroyed. As such the attack backfires on Aster, destroying "Dogma" and winning Jaden the Duel. Due to Jaden's victory, the Slifer Red Dorm remains safe. Aster congratulates Jaden for his victory and Jaden states he won't count their first Duel as official to make things even for both of them, but Aster doesn't mind and leaves. Later Jaden and his friends watch Crowler duel Bonaparte to save the Slifer Red dorm. Though he gets worried about Bonaparte's skills, Crowler comes out the victor thus keeping the dorm safe. He then tells Crowler that maybe he may like his students, causing Crowler to deny it.

A few days after Jaden's defeat of Aster Phoenix, Jasmine, and Mindy come to see Alexis. They tell her, Jaden, Syrus, and Hassleberry about Chazz and the trouble he is causing at the dorm. When they get there, the entire dorm is painted white to represent the Society of Light. Chazz is standing at the front steps, along with the other Obelisks that he turned into members by beating them in a Duel. Atticus is there and he warns them about how Chazz has become a stronger Duelist since he joined the Society. Chazz explains that the Society is run by Sartorius, who Jaden remembered to be Aster Phoenix’s manager. Chazz says that Sartorius is more than that; Sartorius can help people see the light and that soon the whole world will see. Jaden cluelessly believes that they were exposed to lots of white paint fumes which causes Chazz and his groupees to react in shock and embarrassment. He angrily states that they are the crazy ones. Jaden wanted to challenge Chazz, but Alexis decides to do it because she feels it is right that she defend the Obelisks. Chazz and Alexis get ready to Duel in the arena, along with Jaden and the others and the new members of the Society. Chazz devastates Alexis with his new combos and ultimately wins the Duel. Alexis collapses to the ground and her friends run to her side to see if she is alright. She simply gets back up and says that she has seen the light. Chazz says that soon, everyone will, and become members of the Society of Light.

Later, Chazz chooses Lorenzo, the former world champion of the "Shooting Game" to Duel Jaden. Alexis lures Jaden to a planetarium in the white dorm causing Jaden to think that they are going on a date. Once he arrives the Duel takes place. Lorenzo plays a Boss Rush Deck and overpowers Jaden in the early stages of the Duel. He later reveals that Sartorius offered to make Lorenzo a Pro League Duelist if he could defeat Jaden. Ultimately however, he loses.

A few days later, Jaden Yuki is forced into a Duel against Professional Duelist and Society of Light member Howard X Miller, who the English version calls Sartorius' lawyer. X plays a Mill Deck, and his strategy revolves around destroying his opponent's Deck and causing them to lose when they can't draw a card. Jaden ultimately thwarts X's strategy using "Neo-Spacian Glow Moss" and ironically wins the Duel when X himself can't draw a card.

Sartorius, Aster's manager, challenges Hassleberry to a Duel, while promising to set Chazz back to normal should Hassleberry win. The Duel goes quite evenly, with both players being reduced to only a few hundred Life Points in a few turns. Sartorius wins by using "Reversal of Fate" to change the effects of his "Arcana Force" monsters. Despite his loss, Hassleberry is not converted to the Society of Light, much to Sartorius' shock. Hassleberry explains that in the past, he had excavated some Dinosaur fossils. His leg had been injured, and so the bone had been replaced by the fossilized Dinosaur bone he had uncovered. He claims that this "Dinosaur DNA" is what grants him immunity to the powers of Sartorius. A few days later, its revealed that Sartorius has officially enrolled at Duel Academy as a student much to Jaden's concern.

Duel Academy organizes a field trip sometime after Sartorius' enrollment at the academy. Dr. Crowler and Vice-Chancellor Bonaparte about where they will take the students. Sartorius and the large contingent of Obelisk Blue students that Chazz Princeton converted to the Society of Light enter the room. Sartorius wants to pick where they go, and he has most of the student population backing up his choice. Jaden enters the office while accompanied by Hassleberry, Bastion and Syrus. Jaden states he also has a place to recommend for the school trip, but the Society members order him to get lost until he is smart enough to join them. Jaden states he has equal chance of choosing as he is currently the #1 student in the school. It's determined that Jaden will Duel a Society member, with the winner being permitted to choose the trip destination (Sartorius also mentions if Jaden loses then he has to promise to join the Society of Light). Sartorius chooses Princess Rose to represent the Society of Light. She claims she can see Duel Spirits and that hers are three frog princes, referencing well-known fairy tales. Jaden ultimately wins the Duel, and announces that the field trip will be to Domino City, the site of the Battle City tournament.

Duel Academy's students arrive at Domino City for their field trip. Jaden, Syrus and Hassleberry purchase guidebooks to visit the city's landmarks. They visit the pier where Yugi Muto Dueled Joey Wheeler, while the latter was controlled by Marik Ishtar's Millennium Rod. They later arrive at Solomon Muto's Kame Game shop. They introduce themselves to Solomon, and upon explaining that they are from Duel Academy, he allows them to come inside, explaining that Yugi is probably off on another journey (in the dub, he says that Yugi "went to the market to get some olives three years ago"). He offers to be their tour guide for the rest of the day, and he takes them to the sites where Yugi Dueled Seeker and Strings. He lags behind as they continue to their next destination, and is kidnapped. Jaden locates Solomon and also meets up with Aster. Seeing the hologram of Hassleberry's "Dark Tyranno" on top of a building, they determine that he and Syrus must be there. Frost then finds Jaden, and wishes to take him to see Sarina, who Aster recognizes as Sartorius' younger sister.

Jaden arrives at the hotel where the Obelisk Blue/Society of Light students are staying, and is kicked out, along with Atticus. The Slifer Red students are forced to stay at an outdoor camp, and are only supplied food when Solomon brings them some. Blaze and T-Bone, two more of Sarina's enforcers, end up in the same camp as Jaden, though they don't realize who he is. They appear to get along just fine, and Jaden shares the food with them. They reveal that they themselves had once tried to enter Duel Academy, but failed the entrance exam. Despite this, they challenge Jaden to a Duel, still not aware who he is. T-Bone and Jaden are about to start their Duel when Sarina absorbs the soul of Blaze into one of her mirror cards while still back in her hideout. She tells T-Bone not to fail her, and forcibly places the "Monarch" cards of Blaze, Frost and Thunder into T-Bone's Deck. T-Bone uses the combined power of the "Monarchs" to Summon "Demiurge Ema", but ultimately loses when Jaden powers up "Elemental Hero Neos" using several Spell Cards. Sarina seals T-Bone's soul in a mirror as well, and reveals she's locked Syrus and Hassleberry in virtual pods. She states she'll be waiting at Kaiba Land for Jaden and Aster Phoenix.

After making their way to Kaiba Land and the Virtual World Facility within, Jaden and Aster are suddenly transported onto a digital plane, where they are reunited with Hassleberry (who has taken the form of a bandanna-wearing dinosaur) and Syrus (in the form of a "Vehicroid" resembling a Volkswagen Beetle), and also discover that the members of the Light Brigade are trapped here. Then, Sarina appears, explaining that she is acting under the orders of her brother, Sartorius, who wishes to discover the identity of the destined Duelist who is to be his final opponent, and Sarina is to Duel either Jaden or Aster to find the answer, but if Sarina's opponent loses, he must join Sartorius and the Society of Light. Jaden accepts the challenge, but convinces Sarina into a Tag-Team Duel. Sarina agrees, and splits herself in two for the face-off against Jaden and Aster. Aster is reluctant to accept, but decides that he must win to learn the truth about the death ("disappearance" in the English dub) of his father and the fate of an "Ultimate Destiny Hero" monster.

The Sarinas take an early advantage in the Duel, due to the fact that Aster refuses to cooperate with Jaden, while Jaden's moves are more about luck than strategy. Furthermore, the full moon behind Sarina's "Full Moon Mirror" seems to wane into a new moon with every monster that is destroyed, and once "Full Moon Mirror" gains its tenth Full Moon Counter, Sarina declares that the true test has now begun.

Sarina vs jaden
Jaden and Aster vs Sarina.

Sarina 1 unveils her strongest monster: By Tributing "Magic Mirror Spirit Asogi" and "Magic Mirror Spirit Nayuta" she Summons "Dark Creator" to the field and multiplies her monster tenfold, thanks to a Field Spell Card called "Infinite Fiend Mirror". After stating that only the Chosen Duelist can destroy her army of "Dark Creator" monsters, she attacks, but Jaden and Aster barely manage to survive her onslaught, because of Aster's "Elemental Recharge". However, as Sarina ends her turn without a direct attack, Jaden comes to realize that "Dark Creator" and the "Dark Creator Tokens" that were recently summoned cannot attack directly. Even though Aster manages to launch a counterattack with "Destiny Hero - Dasher", Sarina's "Dark Creator" has another surprise: it cannot be destroyed by battle. However, Jaden is able to use the effect of "Dasher" in the Graveyard to Special Summon his newest "Neo-Spacian" monster, "Dark Panther", and use it in a combo that brings out "Elemental Hero Dark Neos". "Dark Neos" is able to negate the effects of "Dark Creator", which, after "Dark Creator" is destroyed, undoes the effects of "Infinite Fiend Mirror". After the Duel, Sarina urges Jaden and Aster to save her brother from the control of the light.

When Jaden and his friends return to Duel Academy they find a girl named Alice who claims to be a transfer student. She helps the Slifers clean there room and makes them food, causing Hassleberry to fall in love with her. However, later that night Hassleberry disappears. Jaden goes to investigate and discovers Bastion unconscious under a tree in the forest. Bastion has no memory of how he got there, claiming he "must have blacked out" (It is indicated that Alice also kidnapped him). Together they find Hassleberry, and Alice appears (Cut from the dub is the scene of Alice walking on water). They learn that Alice has kidnapped Hassleberry, dragged him into a Duel (in the original Japanese version) and is using him as hostage to challenge other Duelists. She claims she posed as a transfer student of Slifer Red in order to seek out victims to plunge into darkness (In the dub, when asked by Jaden who she really is, she claims that she is "a disposable soul, just like everyone.")

She continues to issue several macabre statements until asked by Jaden why she's doing all this. She replies that all Duelists unleash despair on the world, and that she's here to change that. Alice justifies that all happiness is an illusion; and thus, she's here to erase that false happiness. In the Japanese version, Alice wants to crush all the light of hope from Duelists. She challenges Jaden to a "Duel of Despair," in which he replies it will be a "Duel of Hope".

At the beginning of the Duel, Alice displays a chilling sense of purpose, sacrificing her cards and Life Points without any hesitation so she can Summon her "Doll Chimera". As the Duel progresses, however, Alice's anger and bitterness slowly fades away to Jaden's cheery personality and the honesty of his happiness when he Duels. She starts to realize Dueling is actually fun. Jaden wins the duel causing Alice to turn back into a doll. She thanks Jaden for setting her free and disappears.

The following day, a Society of Light member, Bob Banter (who is in love Alexis Rhodes) Duels Jaden Yuki to prove himself worthy to be Alexis' boyfriend. Alexis only accepts under one condition. If Jaden loses, he will be reported for spying on her. Initially Chazz believes that Jaden will most certainly lose since some of Bob's cards involve the player to use their head, however this proves to be wrong as some of the challenges are physical challenges. Close to the end of the Duel, Bob activates "Quiz Panel - Obelisk 30" and Jaden recognizes the card. Bob realizes that was the card he dropped in front of Jaden earlier. Although Jaden at this point knew the entire answer to the question of the card, he ultimately chooses not to answer it completely because he considered it unfair for Bob and that since he knew the answer, it wouldn't be a challenge for him at all. In the end, Jaden wins the Duel after using a gamble of his own: "Secret Mission".

Later Jaden, Hassleberry and Syrus are shown trying to get Aster's steak, but are unsuccessful. Bastion later tells them how he feels weak as a duelist causing Jaden to tell him that he is still good and should not let the Society of Light bring him down. The following night he, Sryus and Hassleberry are about to have a campfire before Aster tells them about how Bastion went to the white dorm to duel Sartorius. When Jaden asks Aster if Bastion has a chance of defeating Sartorius, Aster replies that he does not. Aster states that even if Bastion could somehow win against Sartorius that he still wouldn't win, since although Bastion is a strong Duelist and wants to become stronger, Bastion also wants the people around him and his friends to recognize him. Jaden and his friends run off, and Aster soon appears after Bastion loses to Chazz, he confirms that Bastion let Chazz win and admits that Bastion's intellect would have been a tough opponent for Sartorius, but unfortunately Sartorius was still able to overcome him by preying on Bastion's newly developed anxiety. Later Jaden tries to cheer Syrus up when he gets worried about Zane's ruthless style of dueling.

When Chancellor Sheppard returns and announces the Genex Tournament, Jaden is excited and Syrus thinks that with any luck, Jaden will Duel many professionals. Sheppard specifies that the entire island will be the Duel arena and that each participant will receive one Genex Medallion. Participants must Duel at least once per day and are not permitted to decline the first person who challenges them each day. The winner will obtain all Genex Medallions owned by the loser. The final two medallion-holders will compete in the final match. Sheppard announces that the best veteran Duelists that he met in his travels will be arriving here shortly. He urges all of the students to do their best as he wishes the first Genex Champion to be from Duel Academy. He says there's a very special prize planned for the winner. Jaden leaps up, yelling for them to leave all the winning to him. Syrus comments that past history suggests the prize may be a kiss from Ms. Dorothy. Jaden looks around and Dorothy winks at him.

After Sheppard dismisses them, the students discuss the new development. Syrus says he heard a rumor that the number of medallions one collects will affect your grade, with Aster saying he doesn't care about that. Hassleberry muses that its all about survival. Jaden says he's fired up and asks if anyone wants to Duel now. Aster walks off, saying he'll watch to see how things develop for now. Jaden asks if he's trying to be a downer and turns to Hassleberry for a Duel. Hassleberry points out that he if he loses his first medallion, he'll be eliminated right away, then turns to Syrus and says he wants to take out the weakest competitor first anyway. Syrus turns to find himself surrounded by most of the school, who all see him as the weakest Duelist there. Syrus runs away and everyone present except Jaden give chase. Jaden wonders when the rest of the worldwide Duelists are getting here.

Later, Jaden is fishing at the harbor. He yawns, saying he's bored. He wonders if any outside Duelists have arrived yet, but hasn't seen any boats. Syrus and Hassleberry run up to him and Jaden asks why they look so happy. Syrus says he knew running away wasn't going to do any good, so he started by defeating a freshman red student and Hassleberry says he did the same with a second-year yellow. They both proudly show their newly-won Genex Medallions. Syrus asks why Hassleberry has to be such a show-off and the latter responds by asking if he wants to Duel now to settle it. Syrus declines, saying it's only the first challenge he's obligated to take, claiming he's tired. Hassleberry asks how many students Jaden defeated, who responds by saying none, since he was hoping to have his first opponent to be someone from outside Duel Academy. Syrus wonders if they're really coming. They hear a noise overhead as Prince Ojin's plane comes into view. It lands on top of the warehouse. The three rush to meet it. Hassleberry muses that he must be pretty important to arrive in such a large plane. Syrus sees the insignia on the side of the plane, saying it's the royal crest of the Misgarth Kingdom.

Jaden asks what that is and Syrus asks if Jaden never watches the news. Syrus says it's a small, isolated country, but they've launched SORA, a laser satellite that could burn the world down. He says he did hear that their first prince is a big fan of Duel Monsters though. He had announced on TV that he had passed his test to become a professional Duelist. Jaden says that now he know who his first opponent is. Jaden runs towards the plane, where Ojin is about to descend from with three bodyguards and Linda. Ojin tells his bodyguards to relax - the kid appears to be a challenger. Jaden is about to challenge Ojin when Sartorius appears, zapping Jaden with energy by touching his shoulder. Sartorius offers Jaden his apologies and says that Ojin's existence is unrelated to his destiny, as Chazz and Alexis arrives behind him. Sartorius declares that because of that, he will be Ojin's opponent. Jaden asks who decided that and Sartorius responds that the heavens did. Jaden asks him to hold on and Sartorius approaches Ojin, asking for a Duel. Jaden points out that he was the one who found him first and asks to Duel instead. Ojin asks which one of them is connected to the "D" cards. Jaden asks if he means the "Destiny Heroes" and Sartorius says that that would be him. Ojin concludes that Sartorius will be his opponent then. Sartorius says he is delighted and grateful. Jaden asks how Sartorius is linked to the "Destiny Heroes", insisting that that would be Aster. Sartorius wins easily without even using one turn and he obtains the controls to Misgarth's satellite. Jaden wonders what kind of Duels are in store for the rest of the tournament.

Pegasus in GX
Jaden meets Pegasus for the first time.

YGOGX085
Jaden faces off against the Egyptian God "The Winged Dragon of Ra."

The Genex Tournament is in full swing, but Jaden and his friends are in a slump—especially Jaden, since no challengers have approached him for a Duel. Meanwhile, Maximillion Pegasus and Chumley Huffington have arrived at Duel Academy from Industrial Illusions, searching for a stolen copy of the strongest Egyptian God Card, "The Winged Dragon of Ra". It is later discovered that a man named Franz has stolen the card, and then sneaked his way into the Genex Tournament. When Franz finds them, he challenges Pegasus to a Duel, stating that the winner will claim the stolen card. However, it's Jaden who ends up Dueling Franz, and must ultimately find a way to free "Ra" from a confining Field Spell that forces Ra to use its powers against its will. Following Franz's defeat, Pegasus explains to him that everyone can learn a lot from defeats and mistakes, while revealing the spot where his Millennium Eye once rested (before being stolen by Yami Bakura). When Pegasus offers Franz back his position in Industrial Illusions, Franz readily accepts, and returns to Industrial Illusions with Pegasus and Chumley.

Later, Jaden Duels Orlando as part of the Genex Tournament. Orlando is a Kabuki stage actor and Professional Cosplay Duelist. Jaden defeats Orlando and reminds him Dueling is more about fun than it is about performing.

One day, Chazz Princeton defeats Gelgo, a Professional Duelist and wins his numerous Genex Medallions using his "White Knight" Deck. He challenges Jaden to a Duel, to take place the next day. Jaden asks why Chazz isn't using his "Ojama" cards, and Chazz responds that he has no idea what Jaden is talking about, but then says he vaguely recalls throwing out cards like that the the other day and thinks they landed in the ocean. Jaden goes to the ocean by the shore, trying to find Chazz's "Ojama" cards. Later, Jaden is rebuilding his Deck for his Duel with Chazz and the spirit of Lyman Banner contacts him. After questioning where he came from, Banner reveals that as his spirit attempted to pass on the afterlife, it was eaten by Pharaoh. He says he can't sleep because he is hearing a strange voice. His spirit leads Jaden to the well where Chazz had originally found "Ojama Black" and "Ojama Green". The three "Ojama" cards are there. They all beg Jaden to save them from the crabs that are attempting to cut them.

The Ojama Trio asks if Jaden can help Chazz; and feel that if they returned to him at this point, he would just throw them away again. Jaden offers to put the Trio in his Deck for his Duel with Chazz, which they accept, being excited about being able to fight beside Heroes. The next, day, Chazz and Jaden meet outside the main entrance to Duel Academy's main building, with Jaden bringing Chazz's old black uniform along with him. Chazz reaffirms his devotion to the Society of Light, but mentally feels strange at seeing the jacket, as some of his former memories return to him. Chazz dominates the early stages of the Duel, and Jaden is reduced to 400 Life Points. Eventually Jaden uses an "Ojama" combo to defeat him and reminds Chazz that he only listens to himself and ultimately removes him from the control of the Society of Light.

A while later, Jaden is challenged to a Duel by Lucien Grimley from North Academy, who is revealed to be able to use the power of "The Grim Reaper" to win his Duels, in exchange for his soul. During the Duel, Jaden manages to survive Lucien's One Turn Kill strategy, as Lucien's ace card, "Slash Draw", can destroy all of Jaden's cards and damage Jaden for every card he controls. Jaden later discovers that Lucien had lost faith in his Decklong ago and sold his soul to "The Grim Reaper", if the monster spirit helped Lucien win all his Duels. After the two battle through Lucien soon sees that he had always loved his Deck and seeing Jaden's faith in his Deck he throws the Grim Reaper card to fight on his own. He switches his arm to avoid using the power of the Grim Reaper. In the end, Lucien loses the Duel, but not before regaining faith in himself, which results in him breaking his deal with "The Grim Reaper" and deciding to Duel of his own free will. Jaden later helped Crowler and Bonaparte function as a team during there triangle duel against Pegasus. Though the two lose, they admit that the students taught them a lot much to Jaden's happiness.

One night, the good Sartorius appears from a beam of light and gives Jaden a small black case, telling him to protect it and not to return it to him. He then uses his mind control powers on Jaden so that he doesn't give whatever is in the case back to him, which turns out to be one of the keys to SORA. The Light of Destruction then brainwashes Alexis and tells her to get the satellite key back from Jaden so she challenges him to a Duel using her new White Night deck. Jaden wins and frees her from the control of the Society of Light.

Meanwhile, Syrus is in the hospital, recovering from his Duel with his brother Zane, when he and Jaden hear an announcement over the P.A. system that Jaden has to take a physics pop quiz. Being the test-hater that he is, Jaden is reluctant to go through with it. However, the "announcement" was merely a recording of Dr. Crowler's voice, played back over the P.A. system by Prince Ojin. And when Jaden enters the classroom, he discovers that he is alone, until Dr. Eisenstein appears on the stage before him. Dr. Eisenstein uses his logical Dueling knowledge to overpower Jaden, balancing the power of his monsters, Spells and Traps to deal significant damage to Jaden. But Jaden, who believes that he'll keep drawing the cards he needs, manages to come out on top with a strong counterattack. Upon defeat, Eisenstein is convinced that faith in chance can help win a Duel. With Hassleberry and Crowler waiting outside watching, Jaden is happy to report that he passed his pop quiz. Then Crowler reminds him that no one is giving classes or tests while the Genex Tournament is still in progress. Jaden realizes that he was tricked into Dueling Eisenstein.

Due to Jaden's victories over Alexis Rhodes (freed from Sartorius's influence) and Dr. Eisenstein, and Aster Phoenix's victory over The D (lost in the explosion of his yacht), the Light of Destruction steps up its plans to destroy Earth. It fragments once again from Sartorius's body and possesses Prince Ojin, who challenges Jaden to a Duel for control of his key to SORA. While Jaden manages to survive Ojin's One Turn Kill and rally his "Elemental Heroes" to destroy one of Ojin's "Satellite Cannons", the Prince merely shrugs this off as a minor setback and reveals the most powerful monster his Deck can produce—the "Satellite Laser Balsam", a "Satellite" monster with a Piercing effect, and one that would gain 3000 attack points with each of Ojin's passing turns. But even this is not enough to win Ojin the Duel, as Jaden is able to mount a comeback with "Change of Hero - Reflector Ray".

Unfortunately, although Ojin has been defeated, the Light of Destruction (still possessing Sartorius) has not abandoned its goal. Now, it decides to target Aster and claim his key, in an ultimate attempt to claim both, gain full control of SORA, and make the world "see the light".

After defeating The D and escaping with "Destiny Hero - Plasma" and his life, Aster Phoenix heads to the Society of Light's dormitory, intending to save Sartorius from The Light, by challenging The Light, to a Duel Aster wagers his key. Aster makes a dramatic turnaround and attempts to win the Duel with "Plasma", but is ultimately defeated as The Light of Destruction unleashes "Arcana Force EX - The Light Ruler". Jaden, angered by this heartless victory, challenges Sartorius, with the fate of the entire world at stake. Sartorius places Aster's unconscious form on one hand of the goddess statue and his Satellite Key on the other. The statue acts as a set of scales. Unless Jaden Yuki places his own key on the hand, the scale will be imbalanced and Aster will fall into the pit of lava below. Sartorius activates the statue, and the hand holding Aster beings to lower. If Jaden hands over the key, Sartorius will have access to the Satellite and be able to brainwash the whole world (destroy the world in the Japanese version). It's Aster's life against the world's. Breaking free from the good Sartorius mind control power that he placed on him to prevent him from giving him back the key and choosing the safety of a friend, Jaden throws his key onto the other hand and so the scale tips back into balance which saved Aster for now.

Series103
Jaden vs Sartorius

Elemental Hero Neos manifests before Jaden and explains that the source of every battle is a confrontation between light and dark. Neos says Jaden is the only one with the power of "gentle power of the Darkness of Justice" to save the world from The Light of Destruction. Jaden challenges Sartorius to a Duel for the satellite keys. Sartoruis states he has no reason to Duel Jaden, since he's already given up his key. Sartorius sends a beam of light at the keys to retrieve them, but the beam is blocked by a multicolored beam from space. Neos is protecting the keys. This forces Sartorius to Duel Jaden for them. Jaden gains an early advantage, reducing Sartorius to 300 Life Points with "Shining Flare Wingman". However, Sartorius activates "Light Barrier" which surrounds the field, suppressing Neos' power. Sartorius retrieves the keys and influences Prince Ojin once more, giving him the keys and telling him to run an activate the satellite. With the keys gone, the hand holding Aster lowers towards the lava. Hassleberry runs in and barely manages to save Aster's life. Ojin rushes off to activate the satellite, and Hassleberry chases after him with Linda, leaving Syrus Truesdale to tend to Aster and support Jaden. Sartorius' "Light Barrier" card negates the effects of all non-Arcana Force monsters, allows Sartorius to choose which effect all such monsters get, and add the ATK of any monsters that either player destroys to their Life Points. During the Duel, Jaden has a vision of his own future, with himself standing in a desert. He's attacked by a shadowy armored figure, but this gives him confidence, as this future implies that the world is not destroyed, and that he wins against Sartorius, despite the fact that this implies a bleak future for him. When Jaden summons "Elemental Hero Neos", it tells him that if he wins the Duel, he may be able to stop the satellite. Jaden manages to destroy "Light Barrier", allowing Neos to leave the area. After attacking directly with "Elemental Hero Glow Neos", its Duel Spirit leaves with that of Hassleberry to destroy the satellite.

GX episode 104
Jaden in space.

When Jaden re-summons "Elemental Hero Neos" using "Hero Flash!!", the spirit of Glow Neos remains at the satellite, while a separate spirit of regular Neos returns to the Duel. After Jaden activates "Neo Space" and Summons "Elemental Hero Neos" again, "Neos" rejoins Hassleberry. Sarina is able to stop the satellite from firing at Neos and Hassleberry, and this allows them to demolish it completely. Jaden defeats Sartorius with "Reverse of Neos," and The Light of Destruction leaves the latter's body. Sartorius reveals that The Light of Destruction took his fortune-telling abilities with it when it exited his body. He therefore allows his tarot cards to blow away in the wind. After that, a KaibaCorphelicopter shows up, with Sarina aboard, alive and well.

Dimension World
During the third year, Jaden is pursued by the spirit of his favorite card in childhood, Yubel, which was given to him by his father, in both versions he doesn't remember who Yubel is due to his medical treatment done on him during his childhood until it reveals its physical form. With his parents always working and away from home, Jaden turned to Dueling friends to pass the time, but the sadness associated with his inability to play "Yubel" properly led the Duel Monster to hospitalize a young Duelist named Osamu and scare away the rest of his companions with other misfortunes. During this time, he develops a close friendship with North Academy champion Jesse Anderson, as the two found they had much in common.

Duel Academy is transported to an alternate dimension where Duel Monsters can take physical form, and Jesse ultimately appears to sacrifice himself to grant the rest of the school passage back to their own world. Depressed at the loss of Jesse, and blaming himself for it Jaden willingly attempts to go back to the alternate dimension, taking a group of his insistent friends with him, though they end up in another, desperate dimension. However, Jaden's guilt for Jesse's situation soon leads to an obsession. He begins to think only of finding and saving Jesse and begins to disregard what his actions may make befall his other friends. Because of this, his friends Alexis Rhodes, Tyranno Hassleberry, Chazz and Atticus Rhodes all get captured and sacrificed by Brron, Mad King of Dark World in order to create the "Super Polymerization" card. When Jaden finally wins against Brron, Syrus, Axel Brodie and Jim Crocodile Cook arrive. Witnessing the others being sacrificed because of Jaden's obsession to rescue Jesse causes them to abandon him, leaving him alone.

HaouJuudai
Jaden as the Supreme King in the Dimension World.

Afterwards, Jaden feels guilty at himself for allowing the sacrifices to happen. A strange figure called the Supreme King enters, influencing his reincarnation to become evil and saying he will never be able to redeem himself for his actions. With all his friends gone, Jaden unwillingly accepts it along with the incomplete "Super Polymerization" card and at that time, the Supreme King possesses him. While under the Supreme King's control, Jaden commits many atrocities that include unrepentant slaughter of Duelists in order to complete the "Super Polymerization" and the oppression of several villages. However, as the Supreme King performs these actions, Jaden himself is left in doubt about what he needs in order to be complete not only as a Duelist, but as a person. Unfortunately, he turns to the Supreme King for this advice, who only tells him that one can only overcome evil by becoming evil. After Axel uses Jim's Eye of Orichalcum on the Supreme King during a successful invasion of the Supreme King's castle, Jaden is freed from his possession, but is deeply tormented by the atrocities he committed during his possession, and he thus starts refusing to use his Fusion Monsters, as "Polymerization" and other cards that include Fusion Summoning remind him of the things he did while possessed, since the Supreme King mainly used Fusion Monsters.

Zane tries to Duel Jaden to snap him out of his guilty mindset and get him focused on stopping Yubel, but he only continues doubting himself more and feeling worse. Then Jesse reappears, though he is possessed by Yubel. Learning that his friend is being controlled, Jaden puts his problems aside for the time being so that he can save Jesse. However, when Jaden finally Duels Yubel to save Jesse, it is revealed that Yubel actually removed Jesse's soul from his body and placed him inside the "Rainbow Dark Dragon" before taking over. Jaden manages to exorcise Yubel out of Jesse, but in one foul swoop, it snatches the "Super Polymerization" card from Jaden and then forces him into a Duel. Before the final clash, Jaden finds out that Yubel's power was previously augmented by the Light of Destruction while it was still stranded in space. Although he feels guilty because his actions led to Yubel's exposure, the sheer atrocity and shamelessness of its actions prevents Jaden from feeling any sympathy towards the deranged spirit.

However, near the end of the Duel, Jaden is told the truth between his connections with Yubel: Instead of just being a part of him, Jaden is the next Supreme King, the reincarnation of a young prince of an unknown kingdom from long ago, who was once friends with a human Yubel. As the Supreme King contained the enigmatic power of a being called the Supreme King that is needed to defeat the Light of Destruction, he needed a guardian to protect him until he was old enough to control and wisely use his power; Yubel chose herself for the role, and was transformed into the Duel Monster it eventually became, its effect allowing for the perfect defense against anyone who tried to harm Jaden. Despite the great burden and sacrifice, the young Supreme King promised to give his love (friendship in the dub) only to Yubel, which was why Yubel became Jaden's favorite card as a kid, and why Yubel was so obsessed and jealous with him and his friends.

GX155 - Yubel hugs Jaden
Jaden being embraced by a redeemed Yubel shortly before their fusion.

Finally realizing the truth behind all his troubles, Jaden - after bidding adieu to his friends - allowed Yubel to gain a hold of "Super Polymerization," chaining "Spiritual Fusion" to choose their souls as the fusion materials instead of all twelve dimensions as Yubel was expecting, and purging Yubel of the Light of Destruction's influence. Vowing to never stop caring for each other, Yubel and Jaden are bound together for all time. Jaden supposedly left to battle of the light waves of chaos(This was where the dub of the show ended), and fulfill the mission Yubel was given in the past. After Jaden's disappearance and everyone else being returned back to Duel Academy, Syrus, Hassleberry, Atticus, Chazz, and Alexis were talking about Jaden. After the talk, Syrus sees a shooting star and wishes Jaden to be back, which happened as the "star" crashed at Duel Academy, and was revealed that it was Jaden, with the abilities of both the Supreme King and Yubel under his control.

Darkness
After the events that happened in season 3, Jaden has became very withdrawn and independent (though his cheerful personality was still here). Syrus is now in the Obelisk Blue dorm, and he is the only remaining student at Slifer Red. He now spends most of his time alone, feeling too distanced from his friends after what had happened. He decides to leave Duel Academy, not wishing to put his friends in danger (he had come to believe that things that put his friends in danger happened because of him being around). However, both Sartorius and Kagemaru attempt to convince him otherwise, believing that he is needed on the island to prevent a growing danger in the near future. This seems to be well-advised, as before their meeting, Jaden already confronts a mysterious Obelisk Blue student by name of Yusuke Fujiwara, who can hypnotize people and set fires with his eyes, as well as the mysterious entity Trueman, who seems to want both Jaden and Fujiwara dead. Both of these entities noticed Jaden showing Yubel's power and commented that he is not a regular human.

Jaden eventually regained his love for Dueling while teaming with Alexis in a Tag Duel. While Dueling alongside her, he also made amends with her and repaired their friendship, making him more open to his friends again.

Eventually, Jaden learns that the person that everyone thought was Fujiwara was actually the spirit of one of his cards, Honest, and that Fujiwara doesn't even appear to be on earth. Although Jaden doesn't know what Trueman's intentions are, he has found that the enigmatic dark entity pulls people into the world of Darkness. He realizes this too late, having been distracted by Trueman's actions in Domino City, thus giving the real Nightshroud, using Yusuke Fujiwara's body as a vessel, to attack the students at Duel Academy, only arriving in time to see Nightshroud possessed Fujiwara defeat the last student, Atticus Rhodes. Along the way, Jaden meets Jesse in Domino City, but mistakes him for Trueman after Sartorius infected his "Polymerization" card. After a Duel they fail to finish, Jaden realises it is Jesse and not Trueman he's Dueling and the two of them return to Duel Academy together. Both are then challenged to a triple Duel with Nightshroud, with only Jaden remaining the winner after he purges Nightshroud from Fujiwara. However, Jaden Duels the bodiless Nightshroud in a final Duel with the world at stake. The Duel was intense straight from the start; with Jaden Summoning "Neos Wiseman" using "Yubel." Jaden finally defeats Nightshroud by summoning "Elemental Hero Divine Neos" to defeat Nightshroud's "Darkness Neosphere."

YuGiOhGXEpisode180 PIC final letter
The letter Pharaoh had for Jaden.

After the graduation ceremony, Jaden decides to leave Duel Academy quietly; however, he is brought to the room that contains Yugi's Deck by Winged Kuriboh. Yugi appears there, and after the Winged Kuriboh card glows with a bright light, Jaden finds himself in Domino City in the past, bumping into a younger Yugi who still holds the Millennium Puzzle. He challenges his hero to a Duel, and as he shuffles the Deck he senses the presence of the Egyptian Gods in Yugi's Deck. The Duel then begins, with Yugi eventually Summoning "Dark Magician" and Jaden Summoning "Elemental Hero Neos", their ace monsters, which battle it out. After a long battle, Yami Yugi finally takes over Yugi's body and welcomes Jaden, and Summons "Slifer the Sky Dragon". Jaden's face lights up, and he finally realizes Dueling really is fun. He then sends "Elemental Hero Neos" to attack "Slifer The Sky Dragon" and the Duel comes to an abrupt end with Jaden, Yami and Yugi all smiling. It then pans to Jaden in a desert. Jaden then turns around and looks at the sky, and thanks Yugi for reminding him that he has a long way to go, and Dueling is fun, and shouts his very last "Gotcha!" towards the sun. His bag rustles, and he opens it to find Pharaoh and Banner inside. Inside Pharaoh's collar he finds a letter from his friends each with their own message for him feeling glad that they love him. After reading it, Jaden, Banner, Pharaoh, and presumably Yubel decide to travel together, and thus Jaden runs off towards the sunset, off to start a new adventure.
Relationships
Winged Kuriboh
Jaden is closest mostly to his monster spirits of which he possess to the gift of communication with, such as his Neo-Spacians, but no monster spirit is closest to his heart than his main spirit partner, Winged Kuriboh.

Bastion Misawa
Bastion was also one of Jaden's friends, an avid physics enthusiast and a very determined player who always aspired to be the best, but later realized that Friendship was also a way to have fun.

Syrus Truesdale
Syrus Truesdale and Jaden first met at the entrance exam and later they became best friends at Duel Academy. Jaden believes in Syrus even when he lacks confidence in himself. An example of this is when they are both forced to Duel the Paradox Brothers, Jaden motivates Syrus even though Syrus feels he will just be a burden. Jaden also cares deeply for Syrus and enjoys his company. This is shown when he rejects a promotion to Ra Yellow simply because "Syrus wouldn't be there." In the third season, Syrus loses faith in Jaden after watching their friends' Alexis, Chazz, Hassleberry and Atticus being sacrificed partly due to Jaden's fault. These feelings are aggravated even more due to orb of doubt planted in Syrus' mind by the evil Zure, Knight of Dark World. But later he realizes that it wasn't entirely Jaden's fault and starts supporting him again. After Jaden initially leaves with Yubel, Syrus seems to be the person who misses Jaden the most and immediately cries tears of joy when he sees Jaden return. In the Japanese version, Syrus looks up to Jaden as a "big brother", resulting in a rivalry with Tyranno Hassleberry.

Alexis Rhodes
Alexis Rhodes has always shown interest in Jaden and his Dueling skills. They share a lot in common, like the same passion for Dueling.[55] Along the series they become very close friends, willing to support each other in the most difficult times. An example of this is when Alexis risks her life to accompany Jaden to the dimensional world in order to help him look for Jesse. Another example is when Jaden Duels Alexis to free her from the control of Sartorius. Later, after the events of the third arc, their relationship becomes awkward and this troubles Alexis greatly. She keeps reminiscing about how things were during their first year at Duel academy. She wishes that Jaden would return to his old fun-loving personality and start smiling like he used to before. Their relationship is finally repaired during the Pair Dueling Tournament when Alexis reminds Jaden that he used to love Dueling. After some time, during their final pair Duel, Jaden states that he's grateful to have met her and also claims her 'bold' combo of using "Doble Passe" was his first impression of her. During the course of the tournament, Alexis realizes she has feelings for Jaden and decided to tell him after they had won, but decides not to go through with it. Later, during the graduation party, she thinks about everything that has changed since their first year and feels that "Jaden has changed the most."

Chazz Princeton
Though originally Jaden's main rival, Chazz eventually becomes a close friend. Jaden considered them to be friends much earlier than Chazz did. Though their rivalry continues, they form a bond to their shared battles in various arcs. Chazz is even willing to accompany Jaden into the other dimensions to help find Jesse. By the end of the show, Chazz respects Jaden as a Duelist and writes to him saying whenever he wants they can duel.

Tyranno Hassleberry
Hassleberry enters Duel Academy when Jaden is in his second year. After being defeated, he quickly develops into a rival for Syrus, even calling Jaden "big brother" ("Sarge" in the dub) just as Syrus does. Syrus and Hassleberry would later form a rivalry over who is Jaden's closest friend.

Blair Flannigan
Blair originally had a crush on Zane, but her fixation shifted to Jaden after being defeated by him, much to his shock and displeasure.[31] In the third season, it is shown that Jaden cared for her as a friend even going as far of getting medicines for her in their somewhat dangerous situation after being attacked by Yubel then gaining a mysterious illness, however she is later cured by the medicine from a nearby submarine. The two of them also co-operated well as a tag team.

Zane Truesdale
Zane with Alexis - along with the remainder of the academy students - watched Jaden's entrance exam duel against Crowler which ended in Jaden being victorious, while Alexis was impressed, Zane didn't seem to share the same views towards the new enrolling student, possibly implying that he is worried that Jaden's success would outrank him.[1]

Later on throughout his first academic year, after defeating Zane's brother Syrus in a practice duel for their upcoming Tag Team Duel, Jaden looking at Syrus' hand after the duel notices that it contained Power Bond which Syrus could have used to double his Steam Gyroid's attack points and beaten Jaden.[Notes 1][21] Syrus tells Jaden that his brother gave him the card and told him that he wasn't good enough to use it. Alexis tells Jaden that Syrus' brother is called Zane and is the school's top duelist. Despite Zane's reputation and popularity, Jaden has never heard of him, but is eager to duel him, curious to know the issues between the two Trusedale brothers and more importantly and personally, see if he can beat the school's number one pupil. Alexis tries to warn Jaden, but encourages him to go through with it when realising that his mind was already made up.[21] The next day, after hunting Syrus down with Chumley and stopping the former from leaving the academy, the three slifers encounter Alexis with Zane who is relieved to see his brother dropping out. Jaden angry with Zane's disloyalty towards his brother, challenges him to a Duel; Zane accepts believing that he can beat him at ease, though he probably was also eager to defeat the student who beat Crowler. During the Duel, Jaden mocks Zane when destroying his Cyber Dragon with Elemental Hero Thunder Giant, saying that the latter made the big man on campus get a little bit smaller, but he also compliments him in his ability to maintain calm without worrying or retaliating to his opponent's attacks, Zane compliments Jaden as well, saying that he himself is also a good duelist and plays his cards well, much to Syrus' surprise as Zane rarely gives compliments. Although Jaden manages to counter some of Zane's most powerful forces throughout the duel and maintain a lead over him, Zane eventually beats him with Cyber End Dragon in combination with Power Bond. Jaden does not take losing to harshly and thanks Zane for a great duel, the two duelist walk away feeling impressed with their opponent; it is implied that the two developed a fondness in each other an admiration for each other as duelists from that day on, Zane was more than likely especially impressed that another duelist came that close to beating him.[22]

Zane was originally elected to represent Duel Academy in the School Duel against North Academy, but when word got out that North Academy were using a first year student as their representative Duel Academy then had to choose a first year student of their own in the spirit of competition, and with Zane being a third year student was off limits. When wondering who the first year representative should be, Zane recommends Jaden assuring Chancellor Sheppard that he will make the academy proud.[4]

Jesse Anderson
When Jesse first came to Duel Academy, Jaden was fast friends with him because of how they were able to communicate Duel Spirits and share similar personalities. Also, when they met at the roof, they both had a feeling that they had met somewhere earlier. When Duel Academy returned to its home dimension, Jaden risked his life to go to another world to get him back. During the triangle duel between Jesse, Jaden and Nightshroud, Nightshroud looks into Jesse to find his darkness; said darkness was shown to be his distaste for Jaden. Jesse plays along with it and then jokes with Jaden about it, seemingly tricking Nightshroud. Moments later, Jesse's internal monologue informs us that Nightshroud was indeed right; but he owes Jaden his life after saving him from Yubel back in the other dimension. Nightshroud also clearly did not create this narrative, because the only person to ever have no darkness within them was Tyranno Hassleberry, in which he created a darkness just to manipulate him. This differs from the darkness within Jesse, because his was not fabricated, and instead, it was a very real thing that Jesse felt. In Yu-Gi-Oh! 3D Bonds Beyond Time, seeing that Jesse's "Rainbow Dragon" card was used for "Malefic Rainbow Dragon", Jaden, furious at this, cursed Paradox for that action.

Yubel
Yubel was the spirit of a card Jaden owned in his youth.[12] The card was given to Jaden by his father who was rarely around due to his long work hours. This caused Jaden to greatly value it, and in doing so formed a close bond with the card’s spirit. Due to a promise made to Jaden's past life, Yubel protected him at any cost, wishing to safeguard him from all threats. This caused Yubel to become very overprotective and possessive of Jaden. Eventually, she started putting several of his neighborhood dueling opponents into comas. Jaden's past life held romantic feelings for Yubel and pledged his love to her and her alone (all aspects of this are removed in the dub). She returns to seek out Jaden years later, wishing for him to make due on his past life's promise at any cost (in the dub, she wants revenge for being sent away). Every action she takes is to get closer to Jaden and believes that everything she does is out of love, no matter how heinous the action. Jaden eventually accepts her feelings seemingly because if he didn't she would continue killing people he cares about and fuses himself with her via "Super Polymerization".[56]
This part of the team adventure database:

Jaden's Cards:
Normal Monsters
Elemental Hero Avian
Elemental Hero Burstinatrix
Elemental Hero Clayman
Elemental Hero Neos
Elemental Hero Sparkman
Effect Monsters
Card Ejector
Card Trooper
Chrysalis Chicky
Chrysalis Dolphin
Chrysalis Larva
Chrysalis Mole
Chrysalis Pantail
Chrysalis Pinny
Dandylion[Notes 22]
Dark Catapulter[Notes 23]
Elemental Hero Bladedge
Elemental Hero Bubbleman
Elemental Hero Necroshade
Elemental Hero Neo Bubbleman[Notes 23]
Elemental Hero Prisma
Elemental Hero Wildheart
Freed the Brave Wanderer[Notes 24]
Hero Kid[Notes 25]
Necro Gardna
Neo-Spacian Air Hummingbird
Neo-Spacian Aqua Dolphin
Neo-Spacian Dark Panther
Neo-Spacian Flare Scarab
Neo-Spacian Glow Moss
Neo-Spacian Grand Mole
Rainbow Dragon[Notes 26][Notes 27]
Spell Striker[Notes 23]
Winged Kuriboh
Winged Kuriboh LV10
Union monsters
Armor Breaker[Notes 23]
Extra Deck
Fusion Monsters
Elemental Hero Air Neos
Elemental Hero Aqua Neos[Notes 28][Notes 23]
Elemental Hero Chaos Neos
Elemental Hero Clay Guardian[Notes 23]
Elemental Hero Dark Neos[Notes 28]
Elemental Hero Darkbright
Elemental Hero Electrum[Notes 23]
Elemental Hero Flame Wingman
Elemental Hero Flare Neos
Elemental Hero Glow Neos
Elemental Hero Grand Neos
Elemental Hero Magma Neos
Elemental Hero Marine Neos
Elemental Hero Mariner
Elemental Hero Mudballman[Notes 29]
Elemental Hero Necroid Shaman[Notes 23]
Elemental Hero Plasma Vice
Elemental Hero Rampart Blaster[Notes 23]
Elemental Hero Shining Flare Wingman[Notes 23]
Elemental Hero Steam Healer[Notes 23]
Elemental Hero Storm Neos
Elemental Hero Tempest[Notes 30]
Elemental Hero Thunder Giant
Elemental Hero Wildedge
Neo-Spacian Marine Dolphin
Neo-Spacian Twinkle Moss
Rainbow Neos
Spells & Traps
Spells
Arms Hole
Assault Armor
Battle of Sleeping Spirits
Bubble Rod
Burst Return[Notes 23]
Clay Wrap[Notes 23]
Climax Hour[Notes 23]
Cocoon Party
Common Soul
Contact
Contact Out
Contact Soul
Convert Contact
Cross Change
Dark Factory of Mass Production[Notes 23]
De-Fusion
E - Emergency Call[Notes 31]
EN Shuffle
Fake Hero
Feather Shot
Fifth Hope
Fusion Gate[Notes 23]
Fusion Recovery
Fusion Sage[Notes 23]
Graceful Charity
H - Heated Heart[Notes 23]
Hero Dice[Notes 23]
Hero Heart[Notes 23]
Hero Mask
Instant Fusion
Instant Neo Space
Miracle Fusion
Mirage Tube
Necro Shot
Neo Space
Neos Energy
Neos Force
Neospace Wave
NEX
O - Oversoul
Polymerization x2
Quick Summon[Notes 23]
R - Righteous Justice
Rainbow Veil
Re-Fusion[Notes 32]
Revoke Fusion
Space Gift
Spark Blaster
Spy Hero[Notes 23]
Super Polymerization[Notes 33]
Tag Request
The Flute of Summoning Kuriboh
Transcendent Wings
Traps
A Hero Emerges
Alchemy Cycle
Call of the Haunted
Cocoon Veil
Common Sacrifice
Cross Heart[Notes 23]
Dummy Marker
Elemental Mirage
Emergency Evasion[Notes 23]
Feather Storm[Notes 23]
Hero Barrier
Hero Medal[Notes 23]
Hero Ring[Notes 34]
Hero Signal
Hero's Rule 1: Five Freedoms[Notes 23]
Hero's Rule 2
Miracle Kids[Notes 23]
Negate Attack
Neo Signal
Neospace Road
Over Limit[Notes 23]
Secret Mission[Notes 23]
Soul Union[Notes 23]
Spiritual Fusion
Staunch Defender[Notes 23]
Super Junior Confrontation[Notes 22]
